{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f153\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f154\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}
{\f156\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f157\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f158\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}
{\f159\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f160\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f161\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}
{\f173\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f174\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f176\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f177\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}
{\f178\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f179\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f180\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f181\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tblind0\tblindtype3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid6306394 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid6306394\rsid9645210\rsid13843576}
{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6802;}{\info{\title Panspermia}{\author Matt Worst}{\operator Jeff Chen}{\creatim\yr2006\mo6\dy20\hr15\min49}{\revtim\yr2006\mo6\dy22\hr17\min26}{\version3}{\edmins0}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords679}{\nofchars3872}
{\*\company CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY PRESS}{\nofcharsws4542}{\vern16393}{\*\password 00000000}}{\*\xmlnstbl {\xmlns1 urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1319\margr1319\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot6306394 \fet0
{\*\wgrffmtfilter 013f}\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid6306394\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13843576 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\insrsid13843576\charrsid13843576 Panspermia
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid6306394 {\insrsid13843576\charrsid6306394 
\par \tab The idea that life did not originate on Earth, but was carried here either deliberately or by natural processes, has its roots at least as far back as the ancient Greeks. This idea, often referred to as }{\i\insrsid13843576\charrsid13843576 
panspermia}{\insrsid13843576\charrsid6306394 , took on a scientifi
c form in the work of various nineteenth-century authors. It later gained widespread popular appeal through the work of the Swedish chemist Svante Arrhenius, who argued that spores of life could survive in space and travel between star systems through the
 pressure of solar radiation.
\par \tab The panspermia hypothesis eventually fell out of favor for a variety of reasons. \{SQ1\} Skeptics pointed out that microorganisms could not possibly survive the damage caused by ultraviolet radiation and cosmic rays while being 
propelled out of a solar system away from a star. Indeed, it was unclear how biological material could escape from a planet by natural processes in the first place. \{SQ2\}
 If unprotected, the molecules of life would quickly be destroyed by radiation near the ejecting planet. \{SQ3\}
 Furthermore, it was not clear how microorganisms, having made a journey across the huge distances of interstellar space, could have safely descended to the surface of the Earth or any other planet. \{SQ4\} Arrhenius himself argued th
at organisms caught inside meteorites would be subjected to \{G:311\}incandescent\{/G\} temperatures while entering the atmosphere of a terrestrial body. Such heat would destroy any life-forms lucky enough to have survived to this point.
\par \tab Despite the seeming \{G:312\}implausibility\{/G\}
 of the panspermia hypothesis, some theorists have resurrected the notion in recent decades since laboratory research has shown that many of the objections to the hypothesis can be overcome. Scientists have shown that microorganisms
 protected from radiation by grains of material could be ejected from a solar system if the repulsive force (p) of the ejecting star is greater than the attractive force (g) of the star's gravity. Such ejecting stars cannot be too luminous since brighter 
s
tars emit too much ultraviolet radiation for the survival of bacteria. Organisms can only enter new solar systems whose stars' p/g ratio is low, thus allowing the gravity to pull the microbes into the planetary orbits. According to some researchers, mater
i
al ejected from a planetary system could also eventually become part of an interstellar molecular cloud, which eventually produces a new planetary system as well as a large number of comets. Comets can retain microorganisms protected by other material and
 water, and impact onto new planets, which by then would have cooled sufficiently for the life in the grains to take hold.}{\insrsid9645210 
\par }{\insrsid13843576\charrsid6306394 \tab Further supporting evidence about the likelihood of survival of bacteria traveling through space and entering a planetary atmosphere has been gained from studies of a meteorite of Martian origin found in 
{\*\xmlopen\xmlns1{\factoidname place}}Antarctica{\*\xmlclose} in 1984. Whether or not the meteorite contains fossils of Martian bacteria (and many researchers now seem to reject this possibility), microscopic studies of its internal st
ructure have shown that the interior was not heated to more than 40 degrees Celsius since before leaving the Martian surface. In other words, neither the original impact that must have ejected the rock away from the Martian surface nor the heat generated 
b
y its entry into the Earth's atmosphere did, in fact, melt or vaporize the internal portions of the meteorite. So it is quite possible that any life-form that had undergone such a trip would survive. As for the long journey itself, experiments aboard a Eu
ropean Space Agency mission have shown that bacterial spores can survive in deep space for at least five years. This is sufficient time for viable interplanetary travel, although not, of course, for interstellar travel.
\par \tab Today, the panspermia hypothesis is 
being regarded with less skepticism than formerly. Although the orthodox view is still that life evolved on Earth (and possibly other planets in the universe) without extraterrestrial input, more and more research is pointing to the feasibility of some fo
r
m of interstellar "seeding." Wickramasinghe and Hoyle, who championed the hypothesis of the interstellar transmission of life during the 1970s, argued persuasively that prebiotic chemicals have been shown to exist by remote sensing data of Comet Halley. F
urthermore, they point out that evidence for viable microorganisms existing in comets could be attained in the near future if unmanned space missions could capture and return to Earth with cometary material.
\par 
\par }{\insrsid6306394 
\par }}