{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f153\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f154\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}
{\f156\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f157\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f158\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}
{\f159\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f160\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f161\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}
{\f173\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f174\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f176\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f177\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}
{\f178\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f179\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f180\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f181\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tblind0\tblindtype3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid6961835 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid4260529\rsid6961835\rsid8991547}
{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6802;}{\info{\title Ocean Energy Systems}{\author Matt Worst}{\operator Jeff Chen}{\creatim\yr2006\mo6\dy20\hr15\min52}{\revtim\yr2006\mo6\dy22\hr17\min24}{\version3}{\edmins0}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords584}{\nofchars3333}
{\*\company CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY PRESS}{\nofcharsws3910}{\vern16393}{\*\password 00000000}}{\*\xmlnstbl }\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1319\margr1319\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot6961835 \fet0
{\*\wgrffmtfilter 013f}\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid6961835\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8991547 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\insrsid8991547\charrsid8991547 Ocean Energy Systems
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid6961835 {\insrsid8991547\charrsid6961835 
\par \tab In recent years, the oceans have been seen as a potential source of energy. Oceans are huge reservoirs of renewable energy, which have yet to be properly \{G:321\}harnessed\{/G\}
. Some estimates say that during the second decade of this century, ocean energy sources will generate more than 1,000 megawatts of electricity, which is enough to power a mil
lion homes in the industrialized world. Several technologies have been developed for exploiting these resources in a practical way, among which ocean thermal energy conversion (OTEC) is one of the most promising. Experimental OTEC plants have been constru
cted using different operating principles, although as yet no large-scale commercially viable plant has been launched.
\par \tab The basic operation behind this system uses the heat energy stored in the oceans as a source of power. The plant exploits the difference 
in water temperature between the warm surface waters heated by the sun and the colder waters found at ocean depths. A minimum temperature difference of 20 degrees Celsius between surface and depth is required for efficient operation, and this situation is
 
typically found only in tropical and subtropical regions of the world. There are two basic kinds of OTEC system: the open cycle system and the closed cycle system. In the open cycle system, the warm surface water is converted into steam in a partial vacuu
m
 and this steam drives a turbine connected to an electrical generator. In a closed cycle system, the warm surface water is used to boil a fluid, such as ammonia, which has a low boiling point. In both systems cold water pumped up from the ocean depths con
d
enses the vapor. In the open system, the steam is condensed back into a liquid by cold water pumped from deep-ocean water and then discharged. In the closed system, the condensed ammonia is used to repeat the cycle continuously. Various hybrid systems usi
ng characteristics of both open and closed cycle plants have also been designed.
\par \{AR\}The OTEC system is potentially an important source of clean, renewable energy, which could significantly reduce our reliance on fossil fuels and nuclear fission. Unlike oth
er forms of renewable energy, such as those provided directly by the sun and wind, OTEC plants can generate power 24 hours per day, 365 days per year. Furthermore, the design of this technology avoids any significant release of carbon dioxide into the atm
o
sphere. OTEC can offer other important benefits apart from power production. Aquaculture is one important spinoff. It may also be economically feasible to extract minerals from the pumped seawater. Freshwater for drinking and irrigation is another by-prod
uct, and this will be an important advantage in regions where freshwater is limited.}{\insrsid4260529 
\par }{\insrsid8991547\charrsid6961835 \tab Some drawbacks to this form of power generation have been noted. Perhaps the biggest drawback at present is the high capital cost of initial construction due mainly to th
e expense of the large pipeline used to pump water from 1,000 meters below the surface. Furthermore, the conversion of thermal to electrical energy in the OTEC system works at very low efficiency, which means that these plants will have to use a lot of wa
t
er to generate practical amounts for the power grid. For this reason, the net power output is reduced, since a significant portion of the output must be used to pump water. There are also potential ecological drawbacks, since the water discharges will cha
nge the water temperature and disturb some marine habitats. This impact could, however, be minimized if the water is discharged at greater depths.
\par \tab The main obstacle created by high initial expenses will have to be met before OTEC competes with conventional
 alternatives, and until such time, OTEC will remain restricted to experimental plants. When technology permits lower start-up costs, this technology will make an important contribution to world energy requirements.}{\insrsid4260529 
\par }{\insrsid8991547\charrsid6961835 
\par }{\insrsid6961835 
\par }}