{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch12\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f12\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}Batang{\*\falt \'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7Ec\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEc\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbc\'a2\'aeE?IoUAA};}
{\f37\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}@Batang;}{\f145\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f146\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f148\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f149\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f150\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f151\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f152\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f153\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f165\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f166\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f168\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f169\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f170\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f171\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f172\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f173\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}{\f267\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Batang Western{\*\falt \'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7Ec\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEc\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbc\'a2\'aeE?IoUAA};}
{\f265\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Batang CE{\*\falt \'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7Ec\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEc\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbc\'a2\'aeE?IoUAA};}
{\f266\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Batang Cyr{\*\falt \'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7Ec\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEc\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbc\'a2\'aeE?IoUAA};}
{\f268\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Batang Greek{\*\falt \'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7Ec\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEc\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbc\'a2\'aeE?IoUAA};}
{\f269\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Batang Tur{\*\falt \'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7Ec\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEc\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbc\'a2\'aeE?IoUAA};}
{\f272\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Batang Baltic{\*\falt \'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7Ec\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEc\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbc\'a2\'aeE?IoUAA};}{\f517\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 @Batang Western;}{\f515\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 @Batang CE;}
{\f516\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 @Batang Cyr;}{\f518\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 @Batang Greek;}{\f519\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 @Batang Tur;}{\f522\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 @Batang Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tblind0\tblindtype3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid1842285 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1842285
\rsid2693035\rsid3359135\rsid3548530\rsid5121627\rsid5258982\rsid6099472\rsid7301286\rsid10900976\rsid13255183\rsid15213919\rsid15806363}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6802;}{\info{\title Neolithic Agriculture Development}{\author Jeff Chen}
{\operator Jeff Chen}{\creatim\yr2006\mo6\dy22\hr18\min18}{\revtim\yr2006\mo6\dy22\hr18\min18}{\version3}{\edmins0}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords614}{\nofchars3504}{\*\company Cambridge University Press}{\nofcharsws4110}{\vern16393}{\*\password 00000000}}
{\*\xmlnstbl {\xmlns1 urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1319\margr1319\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin
\dghspace120\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot15213919 \fet0
{\*\wgrffmtfilter 013f}\sectd \psz1\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid1842285\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2693035 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 {\b\insrsid15806363\charrsid2693035 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
Neolithic Agriculture Development
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1842285 {\insrsid15806363\charrsid1842285 
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 In the Neolithic period, starting around 10,000 years ago, perhaps the most important economic revolution in human history occurred - the commencement of agriculture and the domestication of animals for human consumpti
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
on. From this point in time, people could start to rely on a more consistent and much increased food supply. As a corollary of this, considerably larger populations could be supported and people could settle in one place without the need to migrate in sea
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 r\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ch of food supplies. Equally important, the surpluses of crops and animals meant that not all the population needed to dedicate their time and energy to farming; some could now learn specialized skills such as crafts or trade. The building of permanent se
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 t\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
tlements where skills could be developed brought about the conditions necessary for the first growth of towns. But several thousand years elapsed between the beginnings of agriculture and the rise of what we call civilization about 6,000 years ago.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Recen\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 t evidence seems to indicate that while the Neolithic revolution first took place in the {\*\xmlopen\xmlns1{\factoidname place}}Middle East{\*\xmlclose}
 - in the valleys of the Tigris-Euphrates and of the {\*\xmlopen\xmlns1{\factoidname place}}Nile{\*\xmlclose} - it occurred independently in other areas of the world. The origins of the revolution are not kn\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 o
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 wn in great detail, but it is known that the wild grasses that were the ancestors of wheat and barley grew natively in the {\*\xmlopen\xmlns1{\factoidname place}}Eastern Mediterranean{\*\xmlclose}
 area. It may be that Mesolithic (Middle Stone Age) \{G:331\}foragers\{/G\} simply supplemented their diet by reapi\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 n\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
g these wild grasses, and later came to understand the advantage of returning some of the grain to the soil as seed. Whatever the case, we know that at an early date people living in the {\*\xmlopen\xmlns1{\factoidname place}}Eastern Mediterranean
{\*\xmlclose} region, who lived by hunting, fishing, and gat\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 h\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ering, began to make sickles, with stone teeth set in bone handles. Such tools were certainly used for reaping some grass crop, whether cultivated or wild.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Around this time, other communities in the {\*\xmlopen\xmlns1{\factoidname place}}Middle East{\*\xmlclose} cultivated plants from which they learned h\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ow to obtain flour. Evidence shows that they ground down the grain with a simple type of mill, consisting of a large saddle-shaped stone on which a smaller stone was rubbed up and down. The livestock they bred - cattle, sheep, pigs, and goats - was exploi
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 t\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 ed for their meat, skins, and milk.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Both in Egypt and Mesopotamia, the periodic floods of great rivers such as the Nile and the Tigris-Euphrates not only supplied water to the fields but also brought down fresh soil in the form of fertile muddy sediments
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
. This sediment was deposited on flood plains around such rivers, thus annually restoring the fruitfulness of the land. This regular flooding and sediment deposit allowed these early farmers to continue cultivating the same fields repeatedly for generatio
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 n\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
s without exhausting the fertility of the soil, and crop surpluses were, therefore, available to allow an increase in population and a growth in trade and skills development. The area available for cultivation was expanded when people learned to draw off 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 t\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 he river water into man-made irrigation canals and ditches, watering and fertilizing larger and larger areas of land.
\par \{\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 AR\}The practice of artificial irrigation affected the soil in various ways, but not always for the good. Since the channels were often s\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
hallow, there was frequently a great loss of water through evaporation in a hot climate. This could lead to a marked increase in soil salinity, since the salts held in solution or suspension were deposited as the water evaporated, and too much salinity co
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 u\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ld eventually damage the soil. But overall the effect of the irrigation system was to create an artificial environment - and to some extent an artificial climate - with a range of conditions that favored both human experiment and agricultural development.
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
Beyond this, settled agriculture led to the development of property rights and hence to a legal framework and mechanisms to enforce laws. This in turn led to a more extensive and hierarchical government organization and hence to the development of large, 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 s\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 table communities.
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15806363 {\insrsid1842285 
\par }{\insrsid15806363 
\par }}