{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch12\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f12\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}Batang{\*\falt \'a9\'f6UAA};}{\f76\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}@Batang;}
{\f148\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f149\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f151\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f152\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f153\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f154\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f155\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f156\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f168\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f169\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f171\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f172\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}
{\f173\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f174\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f175\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f176\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}
{\f270\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Batang Western{\*\falt \'a9\'f6UAA};}{\f268\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Batang CE{\*\falt \'a9\'f6UAA};}{\f269\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Batang Cyr{\*\falt \'a9\'f6UAA};}
{\f271\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Batang Greek{\*\falt \'a9\'f6UAA};}{\f272\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Batang Tur{\*\falt \'a9\'f6UAA};}{\f275\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Batang Baltic{\*\falt \'a9\'f6UAA};}{\f910\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 @Batang Western;}
{\f908\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 @Batang CE;}{\f909\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 @Batang Cyr;}{\f911\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 @Batang Greek;}{\f912\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 @Batang Tur;}{\f915\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 @Batang Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid10819531 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid3359135\rsid3548530
\rsid5121627\rsid5258982\rsid6099472\rsid7301286\rsid10819531\rsid10900976\rsid11625529\rsid13255183\rsid15213919}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6775;}{\info{\title Camouflage and Mimicry}{\author Jeff Chen}{\operator Jeff Chen}
{\creatim\yr2006\mo6\dy12\hr12\min34}{\revtim\yr2006\mo6\dy12\hr12\min34}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords642}{\nofchars3660}{\*\company Cambridge University Press}{\nofcharsws4294}{\vern16391}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot15213919 \fet0\sectd 
\psz1\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid10819531\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11625529 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 {\b\insrsid11625529\charrsid11625529 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
Camouflage and Mimicry
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10819531 {\insrsid11625529\charrsid10819531 
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
The struggle for survival is a constant feature of the living world. Through evolutionary changes, organisms have developed a range of adaptations that give them the greatest chance of success in order to prosper and reproduce. B
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
roadly speaking, these adaptations can be classed as either physical, in which the shape or structure of an organism's body confers advantages, or behavioral, in which an organism's body processes and conduct contribute to its survival. Together these ada
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 p\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 tations allow each species to follow its own unique way of life.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Two key survival strategies are the use of camouflage and mimicry as means of deceiving predators or prey. Camouflage involves taking on the appearance of the surroundings for the purpose o\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
f avoiding detection by predators or prey. Mimicry, of which there are several kinds, involves copying the appearance of another organism; through mimicry an organism can avoid capture by its natural predators. When a vulnerable organism looks like anothe
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 r\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 organism that is more dangerous or more distasteful for the predator, it increases its chances of staying alive. A predatory animal can also use both mimicry and camouflage in order to catch prey more easily.
\par \{\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 AR\}Camouflage confers distinct survival adva\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ntages on many species. By blending in with its background a creature can remain unseen or unrecognized, giving it a chance to avoid capture. For example, the zebra uses its striped coat as a form of defensive coloration. The pattern of contrasting light 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 a\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
nd dark stripes breaks up the shape of the animal into irregular patterns. From a distance, the eye has difficulty resolving the stripes into a solid form and will tend to see the patches between the stripes as light visible between grass and trees. This 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 i\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
s especially evident in the evening light when the zebra's natural predator, the lion, usually hunts. On the other side of the coin, a predator's lack of visibility often allows it to get close enough to a prey to attack and kill it. The unsuspecting vict
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 i\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 m fails to see the camouflaged stalker closing in until it is too late.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Mimicry is particularly common in the insect world. Several harmless and \{G:611\}palatable\{/G\} species of butterfly mimic the coloration of other, more toxic species. For example, the\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 viceroy butterfly models its visual appearance on the monarch butterfly. The monarch at its larval stage feeds on the milkweed plant, which contains several substances that are toxic or unpalatable to vertebrate animals. The toxic chemicals remain in the
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
larva's body after it has become a butterfly, and predators such as birds or frogs learn through trial and error to avoid eating this species. The viceroy butterfly has evolved coloration similar to the monarch's and so predators, having learned that the 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 m\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 onarch is distasteful, will avoid feeding on the viceroy.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Other forms of mimicry involve purely visual signals. For example, some butterflies which are vulnerable in other ways, have developed spots on their wings that resemble the eyes of a much larger 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 animal. When the insect opens its wings these eye-spots momentarily startle the predator giving the intended victim a chance to escape.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Mimicry is often found in snakes. The coral snake, one of the most poisonous snakes in North America, is used as a mod\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
el by several species of relatively harmless snakes. In fact, the coral's brilliant coloration acts as a warning to predators that it is dangerous. Studies have shown that in areas where both the coral and the nonpoisonous king snake live}{
\insrsid11625529 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 ,}{\insrsid11625529\charrsid10819531 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  the latter is not\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 often attacked by predators. In areas inhabited by the king snake but not by the coral, king snakes are often attacked. This finding seems to confirm that mimicry gives this nonpoisonous snake a definite survival advantage.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 In practice, seeking protecti\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
on by mimicking a dangerous or distasteful creature will be more successful if the model, that is the species whose characteristics are mimicked, is abundant and dangerous enough to have left a lasting impression on the predator. If the model organism is 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 l\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ess abundant than the mimic, then both species could suffer greater predation since the frequency of unpalatable experiences will decrease and predators will be less likely to learn from their errors.
\par 
\par }{\insrsid10819531 
\par }}