{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch12\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f12\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}Batang{\*\falt \'a1\'a7IoUAA};}{\f76\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}@Batang;}
{\f148\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f149\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f151\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f152\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f153\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f154\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f155\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f156\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f168\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f169\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f171\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f172\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}
{\f173\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f174\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f175\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f176\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}
{\f270\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Batang Western{\*\falt \'a1\'a7IoUAA};}{\f268\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Batang CE{\*\falt \'a1\'a7IoUAA};}{\f269\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Batang Cyr{\*\falt \'a1\'a7IoUAA};}
{\f271\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Batang Greek{\*\falt \'a1\'a7IoUAA};}{\f272\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Batang Tur{\*\falt \'a1\'a7IoUAA};}{\f275\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Batang Baltic{\*\falt \'a1\'a7IoUAA};}{\f910\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 @Batang Western;}
{\f908\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 @Batang CE;}{\f909\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 @Batang Cyr;}{\f911\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 @Batang Greek;}{\f912\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 @Batang Tur;}{\f915\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 @Batang Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid6311198 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid3359135\rsid3548530
\rsid5121627\rsid5258982\rsid6099472\rsid6311198\rsid7301286\rsid10900976\rsid13254268\rsid13255183\rsid14312903\rsid15213919}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6775;}{\info{\title Caffeine Extraction Methods}{\author Jeff Chen}{\operator Jeff Chen}
{\creatim\yr2006\mo6\dy12\hr15\min1}{\revtim\yr2006\mo6\dy12\hr15\min5}{\version3}{\edmins1}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords597}{\nofchars3407}{\*\company Cambridge University Press}{\nofcharsws3997}{\vern16391}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot15213919 \fet0\sectd 
\psz1\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid6311198\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13254268 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 {\b\insrsid13254268\charrsid13254268 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
Caffeine Extraction Methods
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid6311198 {\insrsid13254268\charrsid6311198 
\par \tab }{\insrsid13254268\charrsid6311198 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Caffeine is a naturally occurring compound found in the nuts, seeds, and leaves of over sixty plants. When it is\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 extracted from these plants, it is a white, bitter-tasting pow}{\insrsid13254268 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 d}{\insrsid13254268\charrsid6311198 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
er. Caffeine affects the body in various ways: stimulating the cerebral cortex, increasing the heart rate, and causing several other physiological reactions, including insomnia and irritabilit\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
y. Because of its potentially harmful effects, processes have been developed to extract caffeine from coffee, giving the consumer the option of tasting a flavorful drink without the \{G}{\insrsid14312903 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 :621}{
\insrsid13254268\charrsid6311198 \}\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 concomitant\{/G\} side effects. Once the caffeine is removed, it is somet\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
imes added to other beverages, in particular soft drinks, and can also be used as an additive in many medications, especially nonprescription pain relievers.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Several methods are used to extract caffeine from coffee beans. A method commonly favored until r\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ecently uses methylene chloride, a compound with solvent properties whose molecules bind to molecules of caffeine. Methylene chloride can be applied in two ways: directly or indirectly. In the direct method, the unroasted green coffee beans are soaked in 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 t\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
his chemical solvent and the caffeine is removed. The drawback here is that many of the desirable flavors and oils are removed along with the caffeine. To overcome this problem an indirect method was developed. In this method the caffeine is extracted fro
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 m\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 the coffee beans by soaking in hot water. The resulting solution is then treated with methylene chloride to extract the caffeine and the remaining flavors and oils are returned to the coffee beans for reabsorption. In this indirect method, the chemical s
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 o\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 lvent never actually touches the beans.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Methylene chloride has been found to have several potentially dangerous effects. It can cause faintness, dizziness, and headaches if inhaled at high concentrations, and in mice it has been shown to cause cancer when
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 ingested at high doses. However, at lower doses no carcinogenic effects have been shown. Nevertheless, due to the potential dangers, other more natural methods of caffeine-extraction have been introduced in some production plants.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 The most common alterna\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
tive solvent is ethyl acetate, which is a chemical compound found naturally in many kinds of fruit. Because it is naturally derived, it is regarded as a safer alternative. The process of caffeine extraction is the same as with methylene chloride, although
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 using ethyl acetate is generally more time-consuming.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Another method of decaffeinating coffee is known as supercritical carbon dioxide extraction. At high pressures and high temperatures, carbon dioxide is in a supercritical state, which means it acts bot
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
h as a gas and a liquid. Supercritical carbon dioxide is forced through green coffee beans and penetrates into the beans dissolving up to 99 percent of the caffeine. The carbon dioxide is then drawn off and any residue left on the beans dissipates as a ga
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 s\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  when the beans are allowed to cool to room temperature.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 The charcoal, or carbon filter, method uses hot water to dissolve the caffeine and other substances from the coffee beans. The resulting liquid solution is passed through a carbon filter, which remo
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ves the caffeine. The remaining solution containing the original flavors and oils is then reunited with the beans. A variant of this method called Swiss Water Process uses a coffee-flavored solution as the solvent. This takes away the caffeine while leavi
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 n\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 g the flavors and oils.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
Because of the time and expense of all of the above methods, a controversial new approach has been developed but is not yet approved. This involves genetic engineering to delete or turn off genes associated with caffeine production
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 in the plant itself. This idea has provoked much criticism from certain quarters due to the fact that the caffeine helps plants to protect beans against fungi. Beans that cannot produce caffeine could become coated with fungi, which might prove toxic to 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 h\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 uman consumers.
\par 
\par }{\insrsid6311198 
\par }}