{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch12\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f12\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}Batang{\*\falt \'a2\'ae\'a1\'d7IoUAA};}{\f76\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}@Batang;}
{\f148\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f149\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f151\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f152\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f153\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f154\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f155\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f156\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f168\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f169\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f171\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f172\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}
{\f173\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f174\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f175\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f176\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}
{\f270\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Batang Western{\*\falt \'a2\'ae\'a1\'d7IoUAA};}{\f268\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Batang CE{\*\falt \'a2\'ae\'a1\'d7IoUAA};}{\f269\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Batang Cyr{\*\falt \'a2\'ae\'a1\'d7IoUAA};}
{\f271\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Batang Greek{\*\falt \'a2\'ae\'a1\'d7IoUAA};}{\f272\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Batang Tur{\*\falt \'a2\'ae\'a1\'d7IoUAA};}{\f275\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Batang Baltic{\*\falt \'a2\'ae\'a1\'d7IoUAA};}
{\f910\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 @Batang Western;}{\f908\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 @Batang CE;}{\f909\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 @Batang Cyr;}{\f911\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 @Batang Greek;}{\f912\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 @Batang Tur;}
{\f915\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 @Batang Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid12985184 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1640282\rsid3359135
\rsid3548530\rsid5121627\rsid5258982\rsid6099472\rsid7301286\rsid10900976\rsid12985184\rsid13255183\rsid15213919}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6775;}{\info{\title Clara Barton}{\author Jeff Chen}{\operator Jeff Chen}
{\creatim\yr2006\mo6\dy12\hr15\min38}{\revtim\yr2006\mo6\dy12\hr15\min38}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords590}{\nofchars3365}{\*\company Cambridge University Press}{\nofcharsws3948}{\vern16391}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot15213919 \fet0\sectd 
\psz1\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid12985184\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1640282 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 {\b\insrsid1640282\charrsid1640282 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Clara Barton

\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12985184 {\insrsid1640282\charrsid12985184 
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
The early years of Clara Barton, the founder of the American Red Cross and the nurse who heroically tended to the wounded on several Civil War battlefields, were an excellent preparation for her later lifetime accomplishments. She was born
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 in Massachusetts in 1821 to Stephen and Sarah Barton. Her father, who made a modest living as a farmer and miller, was charitable, socially aware, and an advocate for the abolition of slavery. He also was a firm believer in the importance of education. C
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 l\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ara's mother was in agreement with him on the need to outlaw slavery and was dedicated to the improvement of women's rights. She was apparently eccentric, thrifty, and possessed a fierce temper and strong will. Barton's father and mother were frequently a
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 t\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 odds with one another, and their quarrels often created a volatile atmosphere for their three daughters and two sons. Perhaps as a result of growing up as the youngest child in what was an unpredictable home environment, Clara Barton grew to be timid and
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 withdrawn. Both in her early years and even later when she was a household name, she would seek acceptance from others as confirmation of her merit.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 She began her formal education at the age of three - not an uncommon age to start school at that time. He\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
r teachers were soon impressed with the shy, quiet girl. She showed advanced reading abilities, and rapidly displayed excellent progress in writing, arithmetic, and geography. Throughout her school years, Barton excelled in academic pursuits and received 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 m\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
uch attention and praise as a scholar. During this era, most girls her age were discouraged from such interests, but her liberal and unconventional family encouraged her scholarly achievements. She was also fortunate in that her family did not discourage 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 h\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 er tomboyish ways; they permitted her to ride horses bareback and to engage in mock play battles with her brothers. These were often imaginative recreations of wartime }{\insrsid1640282 \{
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 G:631\}reminiscences\{/G\}}{\insrsid1640282\charrsid12985184 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  told to them by their father, a former military officer.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Later, B\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
arton's parents began to steer her toward activities more in line with traditional female expectations. To gain their acceptance, she began to take on household chores, embracing the strong work ethic they instilled in her. When she was eleven, a family t
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 r\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
agedy gave her an early taste of what would become her life's vocation. Her brother David fell from the rafters of a newly raised barn, and Barton volunteered to nurse him. For two years she devoted herself to this task with great diligence.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 As she grew \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
into adolescence, Barton became involved in charitable work such as tutoring children and at one time nursing poor families during a smallpox epidemic. In all this, she was backed by her family who encouraged her to spend most of her free time helping nei
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 g\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 hbors by nursing them when they were sick and helping them in their troubles. This altruistic activity was the beginning of a lifetime of work from which she would receive her greatest satisfaction.

\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 In her early adult years, she began teaching at various\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  community schools, often without monetary compensation. \{SQ1\}
 Barton's pupils regarded her with respect and admiration, and her innate shyness seemed to dissolve before an attentive, eager audience. \{SQ2\} Her own interest in learning was infectious, her \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 t\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
reatment of her students was balanced and firm, and she had an ability to maintain discipline without resorting to force. Even the toughest boys in class were won over by her athletic ability when she participated in their recess activities. \{SQ3\}
 She car\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 e\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 d about her students and the classrooms in which she taught, but once she had overcome the difficulties posed by each new setting, she moved on to confront other problems. \{SQ4\}
 These early experiences were an ideal preparation for the hardships and strug\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 g\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 les she later faced during the American Civil War when she became known as "the Angel of the Battlefield."
\par 
\par }{\insrsid12985184 
\par }}