{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \lang1033\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\author msandre}{\operator Heather McCarron}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy3\hr14\min34}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy26\hr11\min23}{\version5}{\edmins10}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords416}{\nofchars2372}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws2912}{\vern16561}}\margl1319\margr1319 \ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale150\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\cgrid {\par }{\b Woman Student:}{ Dr. Mendoza, I'd like . . . could I ask you a favor?\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ Well, Jeannie, you can ask.\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ I'm applying for a summer position as an au pair with a family that would be traveling in Peru. There are two children, a boy and a girl.\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ OK.\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ Well, I need a . . . they've asked for references. Three.\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ Oh, well, Jeannie. I'm not so sure I can. I just wouldn't feel comfortable writing a reference for you. The job is working with children, and, frankly, I don't know anything about your ability to deal with kids.\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ Oh, it isn't that. I've already got a reference from Dr. Johnson, the head of the Education Department. We . . . students who are going into early childhood education . . . we have to work one day a week for a semester in the university daycare program as part of our training.\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ So you'd like a character reference?\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ Well, no. I thought it would be good to have a letter of reference for my Spanish abilities. It might be useful, because they're going to Peru.\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ Oh, yes, I see what you mean. Yeah, I can do that for you, Jeannie. When do you need it?\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ Within two weeks.\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ OK. I think I can have a draft ready by Friday. That'll give you time for any corrections that might need to be made. Does Friday sound OK to you?\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ Yes, Dr. Mendoza. That would be perfect.\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ Now, can you refresh my memory? You lived in Mexico for several years during your childhood, didn't you?\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ Yes, in Merida, The Yucatan. My father was working on his doctorate. His dissertation was on the Mayan culture.\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ Oh, that's right. I remember your oral presentation on the Mayan calendar. Very interesting speech. And very clearly spoken Spanish.\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ We went there . . . to the Yucatan . . . when I was 10 for a year and then returned every summer for several years.\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ Ten is a good age for picking up a language. Pre-teen years.\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ Well, I've heard something about that.\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ Oh, yeah. Little children can learn a language and sound like native speakers, but they lose it quickly when they move out of a culture. And only a few very talented people gain the skills to sound near native when they learn another language as an adult. Adults tend to remember what they've learned, though. But pre-teens tend to learn well and remember well. So, the best of both worlds, really.\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ I guess I was lucky, then, that Dad got that scholarship to go back to study for his Ph.D.\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ Yes, you were. OK, now, the letter. I should have it ready sometime Friday morning, so you could come by anytime after 1:00. I'll be in my office all afternoon.\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ That would be great. And thank you so much.\par \par }}