{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \lang1033\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\author msandre}{\operator Heather McCarron}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy3\hr14\min38}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy26\hr11\min28}{\version5}{\edmins10}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords667}{\nofchars3807}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws4675}{\vern16561}}\margl1319\margr1319 \ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale150\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\cgrid {\par }{\b Woman Professor:}{ OK. As we were discussing earlier, a lot of people in the business community are realizing that many of our assumptions about management practice are out of date. Old hierarchical or pyramid-shaped models of management within companies, are in many places no longer seen as viable, that is to say workable, given the problems and needs facing companies in the modern world. Can anyone suggest why this is?\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ Well, companies need to improve the use of human resources, that is make better use of employees' knowledge in the workplace.\par \par }{\b Woman Professor:}{ But why is that necessary now?\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ Well, because of global changes and the rapid development of technology.\par \par }{\b Woman Professor:}{ OK. Good. So if that's true, then new ways have to be found of making the most of human resources, especially knowledge. We can say that some organizations have been moving away from the repetitive industrial-type jobs towards more creative jobs, the kind where knowledge, flexibility, and thoughtfulness are more important than simply obeying a set of rules within a hierarchical framework. Managerial thought is starting to wake up to the fact that productive employees are ones . . . are those who are motivated in their work and who can also respond to opportunities and changes in the work environment.\par \par OK. So to give you an idea of what this could mean in practice, I want to look at a company which has gone further down this road than most in response to the new global realities. This is a company called W. L. Gore and Associates. The company name itself indicates something about the structure of this organization. Employees are known as }{\i associates}{ because there are no real layers of formal management; the management pyramid found in traditional companies is almost non-existent at Gore. There are a few members of the Gore family and then the associates and . . . well that's it. Terms such as }{\i employee}{ and }{\i manager}{, and so on, are not used in the company, and there are no formal rules about what one can and can't do. Yes, you have a question?\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ Isn't that very confusing for the emp . . . , uh, associates? I mean, how do they know what to do if there's no set of rules for them to follow?\par \par }{\b Woman Professor:}{ Yeah, I see your point. OK. Well, there are still some important guiding principles. . . . Actually, you can check them out on my Web site if you'd like. OK, but getting back to your question . . . yeah, no doubt, the company culture can be unsettling at first for new associates, but most people eventually fit in to the informal arrangement. New people are told to find something to do at the plant they work at without any prescribed set of tasks. They're joined up to a sponsor, that is, an associate who's responsible for helping them settle in. Then they're expected to check out for themselves how the company works until they find something they're interested in pursuing or in which they feel they can contribute something.\par \par People with particular skills tend to become leaders of teams of associates who specialize in a particular area of company work, such as marketing or research, for example. These teams are loose groupings of associates that develop their own ideas and focus. All the while useful information and knowledge flows very freely around the plant between teams and associates, and encourages a culture of openness and also of loyalty. This kind of working environment gives people more room to create and to be more productive than in the traditional large bureaucracy.\par \par There are a lot of interesting features of this organization that we could examine. We could look at, for example, the fact that all hiring and firing decisions are made by the associates themselves, as is salary level, product development, marketing strategy, and so on. Besides all this, you find a very egalitarian atmosphere, people see each other, talk to each other as equals no matter what their job is. But I think it would be a good idea if you look at some of the in-depth studies of Gore and also some other companies that have made exciting attempts to change organizational structure, so I've posted some useful articles and links on my Web site. For next time, I'd like you to think about whether this particular informal setup is a strength or a weakness. Do you think this management style would work for other kinds of businesses? And bearing in mind our original problem, how well do you think this kind of practice can meet the needs of the new global business environment and the need to make full use of knowledge and other human resources?\par \par }}