{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \lang1033\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\author msandre}{\operator Heather McCarron}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy3\hr14\min40}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy26\hr11\min31}{\version4}{\edmins6}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords598}{\nofchars3410}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws4187}{\vern16561}}\margl1319\margr1319 \ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale150\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\cgrid {\par Let's continue looking at the concept of stigmergy - the phenomenon of order and organization that forms as a result of individuals interacting with and changing an environment. Stigmergy, do you want me to spell that? It's in the class notes I gave out last week. But OK, here it is again. OK. The concept of stigmergy was first defined in the 1950s by a French biologist studying the way termites constructed their homes. How can a group of simple, blind creatures like termites create large and complex mounds several meters in height? Remember, termites do not respond to some central authority that coordinates their efforts. So, the first stage is when the termites are moving around at random, without any apparent purpose. At this point they drop small pieces or pellets of chewed earth which they have injected with attractant chemicals, known as pheromones. I don't have to spell that term, do I? After a while, small piles of earth containing pheromones start to form. This changes the way the other termites behave. All of a sudden they all show great interest in adding new pellets to a new and undeveloped column.\par \par OK, so, then we have these heaps of earth, so the termites concentrate their pellet droppings on particular heaps - and soon these get larger and larger - until eventually columns appear. These columns will continue to grow until they reach the height typical of the particular species. During the construction process, the pheromones on the bottom of the pile evaporate, and so termites will climb higher to place balls of earth near the existing pheromone concentrations, which are now near the top. Also, there's a final stage. If the column is built near another column, the termites will join the two columns again by dropping saliva-moistened pellets of earth until an arch has been formed.\par \par Now, the thing is that the actions of these insects are not coordinated by any kind of plan or central controller - but rather by how the environment appears to the termites at each moment. The insect reacts to the environment as it is. The developing work itself provides the information and instruction for further work.\par \par So, OK. Moving earth around to build mounds is one example of stigmergy. Let's look at another example of organisms modifying the environment so that others respond to the new environment at a later time. Have you ever thought how ants find the shortest route to the best food source? OK. So when an ant finds a food source, it brings some of the food back to the nest - leaving a chemical trail. Other ants will follow this trail back home and leave their own chemical traces . . . and so this reinforces the pheromones on the trail. Now, suppose there is more than one trail, one path to the food. What happens is that the ants will find the shortest route available. This is because the shortest route will have more trips per ant for any period of time, and of course, the chemical scent on that trail will be stronger and draw more ants. The pheromone on the trails that are ignored will evaporate and so no longer be used.\par \par OK, so is stigmergy applicable to human societies? Well, in a sense the World Wide Web is a form of stigmergic communication. What is happening here is that individuals change the total content of the Web - and each time someone follows a link or goes to a Web site, they're helping to create a rank order of interest. The point is, they are modifying what we might call the informational landscape. The Internet is not controlled by some central authority or plan, but nevertheless, it grows and develops along paths of interest with its own structure and concepts. We can think of the Internet as a dynamic and complex system. I mean, the landscape of sites and their functions changes independently as it responds to the unrestricted behavior of millions of users reading and writing for their own purposes. People make changes to the landscape, and these changes influence the way they react to it. So this is true stigmergy at work, and I think you will agree it has a lot in common with the way termites and ants interact with their environments.\par \par }}