{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch12\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f12\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}Batang{\*\falt \'a8\'cfaUAA};}{\f38\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}@Batang;}
{\f154\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f155\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f157\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}
{\f158\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f159\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f160\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}
{\f161\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f162\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f174\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}
{\f175\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f177\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f178\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f179\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}
{\f180\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f181\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f182\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}{\f276\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Batang Western{\*\falt \'a8\'cfaUAA};}
{\f274\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Batang CE{\*\falt \'a8\'cfaUAA};}{\f275\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Batang Cyr{\*\falt \'a8\'cfaUAA};}{\f277\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Batang Greek{\*\falt \'a8\'cfaUAA};}
{\f278\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Batang Tur{\*\falt \'a8\'cfaUAA};}{\f281\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Batang Baltic{\*\falt \'a8\'cfaUAA};}{\f536\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 @Batang Western;}{\f534\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 @Batang CE;}
{\f535\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 @Batang Cyr;}{\f537\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 @Batang Greek;}{\f538\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 @Batang Tur;}{\f541\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 @Batang Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \snext0 
Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid5725973\rsid10710557}
{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6775;}{\info{\author msandre}{\operator Jeff Chen}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy3\hr14\min44}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy26\hr16\min50}{\version7}{\edmins20}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords781}{\nofchars4453}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws5224}
{\vern16391}}\margl1319\margr1319 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\rsidroot5725973 \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 {\insrsid5725973 
\par }{\b\insrsid5725973 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid5725973 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  OK, so I want to discuss a set of numbers called Fibonacci numbers, named after an Italian scholar living around t\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
he year 1200. Fibonacci first noticed this sequence of numbers when he had entered a mathematical competition set by the emperor. The problem was to calculate how many pairs of rabbits would exist in an enclosed area if a female rabbit can produce one new
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
pair (one male, one female) every month. The rules of the competition also assumed that the rabbits never die. Well, Fibonacci worked out that the number of rabbits . . . I mean number of pairs of rabbits . . . in the enclosed area after each month showed
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 the following progression: 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, and so on. Can you spot how the series develops?
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid5725973 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Man Student:}{\insrsid5725973 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  Each number is the result of adding the two previous numbers.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid5725973 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid5725973 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  Yes, that's it. So what's the next number after 8?
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid5725973 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Student:}{\insrsid5725973 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  I\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 t's, uh, 13, and then, um, 22 . . . Sorry, I mean 21.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid5725973 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid5725973 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  OK, that's it. Here is the complete sequence up to 144: 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, 144.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 OK. Just to repeat . . . each number is found by adding the previous two numbers tog\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 ether. Of course, this list can be extended indefinitely.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Now, it turns out that Fibonacci numbers can be found in many places in nature. Let's look at one or two examples. Take honeybees, for example. In honeybees, the female bees have two parents wherea\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
s the males have just one parent, a female. Do you know why?
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid5725973 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Man Student:}{\insrsid5725973 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  Is it because the males are born from the unfertilized eggs of the Queen bee?
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid5725973 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid5725973 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  Yeah, that's right. That means that if we add up the}{\insrsid5725973 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  number of oh, say, great-great-}{
\insrsid5725973 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 g\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
randparents of a male it'll be 5 - but the number of great-great-grandparents of a female will be 8. If we look at the number of great-great-great-grandparents, it'll be 8 for males and 13 for females. This ratio continues no matter how many levels of gra
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 n\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 dparent we go back.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
Fibonacci numbers are also found in plants. Usually, the number of petals on flowers is a Fibonacci number. For example, buttercups have 5 petals, corn marigolds have 13, and daisies can be found with 34, 55, or even 89 petals. Other p
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
laces in nature where numbers in this series can be found are in the arrangement of seeds in flower heads. Many seeds are arranged in spirals going in two directions. If you count the number of these spirals you'll usually find two neighboring numbers in 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 t\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 his series. For example, 55 and 34, or 55 and 89. Pinecone spirals, the spiral shape of seashells, and the way plants and trees branch can also be described with these numbers.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Now, if we take any number in the Fibonacci series and divide it by the number before it, we will find that the result is very nearly 1.61804.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid5725973 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Student:}{\insrsid5725973 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  I don't get it. If you divide 2 by 1 the answer is 2. That doesn't fit. And also 5 divided by 3 i\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
s 1.6666. That doesn't exactly fit either.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid5725973 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid5725973 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  OK. You are right. But the result eventually settles down and comes closer and closer to this number.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Take a look at this graph. I've plotted the series here, and I think you can see that after \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
a while the number eventually settles down and comes closer and closer to this horizontal line at approximately 1.61804. Now the name of this ratio, this result of dividing each number by the number before it, is called }{\i\insrsid5725973 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 phi}{\insrsid5725973 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 .
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 That's the Greek letter }{\i\insrsid5725973 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 phi}{\insrsid5725973 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 , w\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
hich is a like a little circle with a diagonal line through it. Now phi is also called the golden ratio or the golden mean or sometimes just the golden number.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 As a matter of fact, this ratio, phi, has been understood for thousands of years. The ancient E\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
gyptians used this ratio in constructing the pyramids. And later the Greek mathematician, Pythagoras, showed that the golden ratio was the basis of the proportions of the human body. These discoveries in turn had an important effect on Greek art and archi
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 t\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ecture. Even small details in the decoration of their buildings were constructed with this proportion in mind. In fact, I've heard that the use of phi to represent this ratio was actually taken from the name of the Greek architect Phidias, who used phi a 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 l\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ot in his constructions. Later, art and architecture of the Medieval and Renaissance periods, and even up to the present day, have very often made use of this ratio. It seems then, that the golden number must have some deep aesthetic appeal. Perhaps it ha
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 s\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  some abstract, formal property that pleases us when we see it represented in art.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 But why is it that this ratio appears in so many places in nature? Well, it appears that this arrangement gives the best layout - distribution - so that, for example, each \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
leaf on a tree gets the maximum amount of light and the best exposure to falling rain. In seeds and petals, it gives the best packing system so that, for example, each seed is exposed to attract insects. Don't ask me how they work this out exactly - but a
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 p\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
parently if we take seeds packed in a seed head, for example, the angle between each seed will be almost exactly 0.61804 . . . which is phi without the whole number 1. It's been calculated that no matter how big the seed head of the flower, it can contain
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 the maximum number of seeds in the round area of the head.
\par 
\par }}