{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \lang1033\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\author msandre}{\operator Heather McCarron}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy4\hr16\min15}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy26\hr12\min1}{\version4}{\edmins3}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords337}{\nofchars1923}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws2361}{\vern16561}}\margl1319\margr1319 \ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale175\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\cgrid {\par }{\b Man Student:}{ Hey Irene, you're looking kind of down. What's up?\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ Oh, I am kind of depressed. The mid-term test scores for Russian level 2 have just been posted, and I failed. Not just kind of, but dismally.\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ Oh, gee. Well, I could help you in math or chemistry, but not in foreign languages. Sorry.\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ I'm just at my wits' end. I guess I should drop the course, but I need foreign language credit. It's really going to have a bad effect on my grade point average, though.\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ You could drop it and sign up for a different language.\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ That wouldn't help. I'm just not good at learning languages.\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ Well, I do think some languages are easier than others. I mean with Russian you had to learn the Cyrillic alphabet. That's got to make it harder right off the bat.\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ Well, I've done that already. I know it pretty well, in fact. The fact is that this is my second semester. If I switched languages, I'd have to start all over, from the very beginning.\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ Well, have you thought about getting a tutor?\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ A tutor?\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ Yeah, tutor. You know, in the Student Service Center, they have lists of people willing to teach subjects they're good at.\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ Do you think there'd be someone to help with Russian?\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ Sure, why not? Maybe a Russian exchange student or a graduate student in the Russian department. Someone who needs some cash.\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ It's a good idea, but I don't have the money to pay a tutor.\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ But, it doesn't cost anything.\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ What do you mean it doesn't cost anything? You just said someone who needs money . . . and tutors aren't cheap you know.\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ It doesn't cost you anything. You see, the Student Service Center pays their tutors from some grant money they get. And that means that students who need help financially and are good in a subject can help those students who need some tutoring.\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ So you're saying I could sign up for a tutor in Russian and not have to pay anything.\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ Yeah, that's basically it. Of course, there might not be anyone around who can tutor Russian. You'll have to go over to the Center and check that out.\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ Well, it's worth looking into. Thanks for the information.\par \par }}