{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f153\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f154\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f156\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f157\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f158\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f159\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f160\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f161\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f173\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f174\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f176\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f177\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f178\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f179\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f180\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f181\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid14231682 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid5510728\rsid12218278\rsid14231682}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6775;}{\info{\author msandre}{\operator Jeff Chen}
{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy4\hr16\min17}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy4\hr18\min33}{\version3}{\edmins1}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords277}{\nofchars1585}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws1859}{\vern16391}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot14231682 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid14231682\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid14231682 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid5510728\charrsid12218278 
\par When metals are mined or processed, fine particles of dust from these metals are dispersed into the atmosphere. In the areas around mines and metal processing facilities, the accumulation of these metals is considerable. Ot
her metals get into the ground through rusting and corrosion of discarded objects at landfill sites and automobile scrap yards, and of course, metals emitted by traffic also contribute to soil contamination.
\par 
\par These metals remain in the ground for many years and negatively affect microorganisms by reducing their ability to break down plant matter. This prevents the release of nutrients from dead plants, thus lowering the fertility of the soil. Small amounts of 
m
etals get washed out or taken up by plants, and this in itself can be a problem, but much of the accumulation stays almost indefinitely in the ground. Over time, metal concentrations contribute to the loss of soil productivity - contaminated soil has no l
ife in it and crop yields fall as a result.
\par 
\par The metal cadmium, in particular, has become a problem in many places - since this metal is one component of artificial fertilizers. Now, as a result of widespread use of fertilizers, cadmium levels have increase
d gradually in arable soils and also in cereal crops. If the levels of this and other metals reach critical levels, they can enter the food chain and pose a health risk to humans.
\par 
\par OK. Now for the good news. The good news is that methods do exist for impro
ving poisoned soil. Experiments have been carried out which show that certain plants have the ability to take up lead and cadmium into their root systems, decreasing the levels in the soil and eventually leading to improved soil and crop productivity. Nev
ertheless, it is important that constant monitoring of affected soil is performed so that such pollutants can be treated to reduce the harm they do.
\par }{\insrsid14231682\charrsid12218278 
\par }}