{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f153\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f154\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f156\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f157\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f158\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f159\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f160\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f161\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f173\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f174\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f176\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f177\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f178\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f179\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f180\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f181\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid1903312 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1903312\rsid12211057\rsid15017959}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6775;}{\info{\author msandre}{\operator Jeff Chen}
{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy4\hr16\min19}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy4\hr18\min33}{\version3}{\edmins1}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords315}{\nofchars1799}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws2110}{\vern16391}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot1903312 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid1903312\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1903312 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid12211057\charrsid15017959 
\par OK. You
've read about twin studies and their use in trying to show what part of the human personality is inherited - and what part is formed by the environment. But I'm not completely convinced about the usefulness of such studies. I think one or two basic assum
ptions made by researchers are questionable.
\par 
\par Now, one problem is the so-called equal environment assumption, the assumption that fraternal twins and identical twins share a similar environment. Let me clarify this. Twins in a family setting share such expe
riences as family upbringing, school experiences, and the behavior of others towards the pair. Now, for the twin study researchers, it's important that the similar environment experienced by fraternal twins is equal to the similar environment experienced 
by identical twins.
\par 
\par Now, why do researchers need to think about this? Well, if identical twins show greater similarity in a particular characteristic than fraternal twins do on the same characteristic, then it's possible that this difference is due to natu
re or genes - rather than to the environment. OK? Now, here's an example. If research showed identical twins more likely than fraternal twins to have, say, the same preference in, oh, well, let's say clothes or ice cream, then it could be argued that gene
s are what makes this greater similarity. We could then say that preference in ice cream is genetically determined.
\par 
\par OK. But here's the problem. It's not so clear that fraternal and identical twins do really experience the same level of similarity in their 
environments. In fact, research seems to show that parents, family members, and others actually treat identical twins as a single unit, or two halves of one person. They treat them identically. They might give twins the same ice cream, dress them identica
l
ly, or expect them to join the same activities. Even as adults, identical twins are likely to share the same environment. So, if it's true that identical twins experience a more similar environment than fraternal twins, then any similarities in their pers
onality could be due to environment rather than genetics.
\par }{\insrsid1903312\charrsid15017959 
\par }}