{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch12\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f12\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}Batang{\*\falt \'a9\'f6UAA};}{\f37\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Batang;}
{\f38\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f39\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f41\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f42\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f43\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f44\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f45\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f46\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f58\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f59\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f61\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f62\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f63\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}
{\f64\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f65\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f66\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}{\f160\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Batang Western{\*\falt \'a9\'f6UAA};}
{\f158\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Batang CE{\*\falt \'a9\'f6UAA};}{\f159\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Batang Cyr{\*\falt \'a9\'f6UAA};}{\f161\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Batang Greek{\*\falt \'a9\'f6UAA};}
{\f162\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Batang Tur{\*\falt \'a9\'f6UAA};}{\f165\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Batang Baltic{\*\falt \'a9\'f6UAA};}{\f410\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 @Batang Western;}{\f408\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 @Batang CE;}
{\f409\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 @Batang Cyr;}{\f411\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 @Batang Greek;}{\f412\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 @Batang Tur;}{\f415\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 @Batang Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \snext0 
Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid7697024\rsid9404374\rsid12417631}
{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6775;}{\info{\author msandre}{\operator Jeff Chen}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy3\hr14\min54}{\revtim\yr2006\mo6\dy2\hr10\min21}{\version7}{\edmins44}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords662}{\nofchars3780}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws4434}
{\vern16391}}\margl1319\margr1319 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\rsidroot12417631 \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 {\insrsid12417631 
\par }{\insrsid12417631 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 OK. I'd like to get started. Last week I talked about hard money \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
in political campaigns. And, to refresh your memories, remember that the hard money we're talking about isn't . . . doesn't have the meaning of hard money that is sometimes used in economics, that is, money backed by gold. What I'm talking about here is m
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 o\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ney used in political elections. Hard money, in this context, the political meaning, is money raised to meet the expenses to run the campaigns for presidential elections. Remember that there is no limit on the amount . . . how much hard money is spent . .
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
. but there are restrictions on how it is obtained and how it is used. OK, so the restrictions are . . . First, it must be used to promote a specific candidate, that is, a named individual. Second, there are limitations on how much money individuals or co
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 r\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
porations can contribute. So if you want to promote a particular person for president, you can only donate a limited amount of money. Third, all contributions and expenditures must be public information. So, OK, the general public has a right to know who 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 i\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 s spending what on whom, on which candidate.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 OK. So if there aren't any questions, I'd like to go on and talk about what is termed as soft money.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 To give you some background, back in 1905, the president at that time was Theodore Roosevelt. Now he felt th\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
at it was necessary to have laws so that corruption couldn't take place during campaigns. A law was passed, making it illegal for corporations to contribute to presidential elections. Over the following years, limitations were put on the amount of money t
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 h\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
at rich people, corporations, and other interest groups could donate. After reports of some financial abuses in the campaign of 1972, further restrictions were made and a committee was set up to enforce the laws.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 However, in 1976 the legality of these rul\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
es was brought into question. It was argued in the Supreme Court that the limits placed on presidential campaign spending violated the First Amendment. . . . The First Amendment, of course, is the one guaranteeing freedom of speech. Now, you might ask wha
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 t\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 does contributing money have to do with freedom of speech? OK, well, here's the argument. Limits on spending reduce the amount of possible advertising and campaigning needed to discuss the issues in depth and educate the voting public. So, you can see th
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 a\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 t reducing the amount spent on advertising and discussion kind of reduces freedom of speech. 
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 So OK, the Supreme Court overruled the limitations it had made back in 1972. So now, limitations were no longer set on campaign spending - and also a candidate c\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ould donate to his or her own campaign. And these changes have allowed soft money to come into play. 
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 OK. So, what is }{\i\insrsid12417631 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 soft money}{\insrsid12417631 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
? Well, technically, soft money is raised and used in state and local elections, according to state laws. So we're talking abou\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
t local and state, not national, here. Of course, as you know, every state has its own laws and those laws vary considerably from state to state. So, soft money is not regulated by the federal government, but by the state government. State laws differ in 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 t\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
he amount of limitations they impose. Some states have no restrictions as to how much can be contributed, how the money is spent, and how much is disclosed . . . or even how much is made known to the public. Contributions are supposed to be used only for 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 p\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 olitical activities at the state and local level. }{\insrsid9404374 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 It}{\insrsid12417631 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 cannot be used to promote any particular candidate. These activities include voter registration, efforts to get people out to vote, and educating the public. Activities like that.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Now, let's review th\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 e differences between hard money and soft money.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Hard money is used to promote a presidential candidate, whereas soft money is used to educate the public about the issues. There are limitations on how much individuals or groups can contribute toward the p
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
romotion of a particular person as a U.S. president, in other words, hard money. But limitations on soft money, if any, depend on each particular state's laws. Although there is no consistent limitation on how much soft money is given, this soft money can
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 n\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ot be used to promote a particular presidential candidate. Hard money must be accounted for so that any one of us can find out how the money was spent. However, we cannot see how soft money is spent. There is no law that states this knowledge must be made
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 available to the public.
\par 
\par }}