{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \lang1033\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\author msandre}{\operator Heather McCarron}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy3\hr14\min57}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy26\hr13\min34}{\version6}{\edmins10}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords413}{\nofchars2359}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws2897}{\vern16561}}\margl1319\margr1319 \ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale150\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\cgrid {\par }{\b Woman Student:}{ You wanted to see me, Professor?\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ Yes, Sally. It has to do with your research paper. Well, to come straight to the point, I can't accept it as it is. A significant amount of the paper has been plagiarized, and, well, that's a serious matter.\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ I tried to put things in my own words. I didn't mean to copy other people's ideas. \par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ It's not a matter of putting someone else's ideas into your own words. You can copy their ideas, but you have to acknowledge the source. Who had the idea? Give that person or group of people credit - instead of pretending it's your own work.\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ I'm not trying to pretend it's mine. Well, I know it kind of looks that way.\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ OK, look, I'm willing to give you the benefit of the doubt and let you redo the paper. So, look at this paragraph I've marked. \par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ Uh-huh.\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ I know it isn't yours because it's in a different register from other parts of the paper.\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ I don't know what you mean by "register."\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ Oh, well. The words here are much more sophisticated than the words in the rest of the section. The grammatical structure is much more complex. You didn't write this, did you?\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ No. I didn't.\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ No, you didn't. OK. Now here I've highlighted a really interesting idea and I'd like to read more about it . . . the complete study, but I can't. Why not? Because you haven't told me who wrote it and where the article is published. Sally, it's an important aspect of research to be able to follow up on other studies and educate ourselves on research that's being done. Citing your references properly allows those who read your papers to do that. OK?\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ Yeah, I see your point.\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ You know that when you support your argument with information that comes from an authority, it makes people more confident of your statements. So let's say, well, for the sake of an example, you argue that coffee is a health food. People reading it are going to wonder about your authority to make that claim. But if you discuss and cite the studies on which you're basing that claim, people will be more willing to accept the truth of your argument.\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ That makes sense.\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ OK. Sally, I'm going to give you back your paper, and I want you to rewrite it giving credit to those people who have done the studies that you're basing your argument on. I hope you kept good notes on your references 'cause you need to check the places I've indicated. \par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ Thank you. I know that I need to take care of these problems, but I'm not sure how.\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ Well, Sally, I'm kind of busy. I suggest you drop into the University Learning Center for help.\par }{\b \par Woman Student:}{ OK. I will. And I'll get this back to you in a few days. \par \par }}