{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f39\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f40\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f42\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f43\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f44\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f45\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f46\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f47\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f59\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f60\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f62\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f63\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f64\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f65\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f66\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f67\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid3866877 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid3866877\rsid4348528\rsid11806114\rsid12190744}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6775;}{\info{\author msandre}{\operator Jeff Chen}
{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy3\hr16\min25}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy8\hr12\min7}{\version4}{\edmins4}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords594}{\nofchars3386}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws3973}{\vern16391}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale110\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot3866877 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid3866877\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3866877 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid4348528\charrsid3866877 
\par All right. So, this evening we're going to take a look at child development, specifically at the possibility of children becoming emotionally damaged as a result of what has been called }{\i\insrsid4348528\charrsid4348528 maternal deprivation}{
\insrsid4348528\charrsid3866877  in the first few years of life.
\par }{\insrsid4348528 
\par }{\insrsid4348528\charrsid3866877 Most of the research in this field goes back to the work o}{\insrsid12190744 f John Bowlby in the 1950s and }{\insrsid4348528\charrsid3866877 
60s, who considered that relationships between infants and their mothers developed as a result of a process known as }{\i\insrsid4348528\charrsid4348528 imprinting}{\insrsid4348528\charrsid3866877 
. This term is used to mean a special kind of learning, which occurs early in infancy, in which the infant, and incidentally, this means not only human infants, but also animals, establishes a deep attachment towards its mo
ther. Bowlby claimed that the infant develops a special attachment to its mother, and that this attachment was different from its attachments to other people.}{\insrsid11806114 
\par }{\insrsid4348528 
\par }{\insrsid4348528\charrsid3866877 OK, now here's the important point for psychologists to think about. What happens if this attach
ment is broken or impaired in some way? What happens if the young child is deprived of some or all maternal contact? Bowlby and others claimed that if the child does not receive sufficient maternal care during the first five years of life, it will have . 
. . the result will be lasting negative consequences in terms of the social and psychological adjustments throughout later life.}{\insrsid11806114 
\par }{\insrsid4348528\charrsid3866877 
\par Now, of course, for ethical reasons it's difficult to construct experiments to determine the validity of this claim. But studie
s have been done on adolescents who have gotten themselves into trouble with the law, for example. Researchers have pointed out that a high proportion of these delinquents were shown to have been separated from their mothers for varying periods of time be
f
ore they were five years old. Other studies of the same kind have claimed that maternally deprived children were less intelligent - or suffered from various psychological difficulties - including a lack of social conscience or inability to form relationsh
ips, for example. All of this seems to point to the importance of the mother-child bond in early childhood.}{\insrsid11806114 
\par }{\insrsid4348528\charrsid3866877 
\par OK, this may seem pretty self-evident to you. But in fact this theory has been challenged more recently. For example, some have shown that these stu
dies were demonstrating the effects of factors other than lack of mother contact. These effects could be due, for example, to the effects of poor institutional care, or to the fact that such delinquents were not given the opportunity to form any relations
hips at all, not just one with the mother. It has also been shown that infants often form what we can call }{\i\insrsid4348528\charrsid4348528 multiple attachments}{\insrsid4348528\charrsid3866877 
, that is, they develop important attachments to several people. More exactly, it's been argued that infants form relationships wi
th people who interact most sensitively with them, whether or not this was the mother, or even the father. Any significant caregiver may be important.}{\insrsid4348528 
\par }{\insrsid4348528\charrsid3866877 
\par So, OK, what about maternal deprivation in animals? Well, in fact a lot of studies have been done, espec
ially on rats and mice and even on monkeys. Of course, some of you may find this objectionable. So OK, various experiments have removed infants of certain animal species from their mothers at different ages and for differing amounts of time. A lot of this
 
research has shown that these animals perform certain tasks poorly and they often engage in what appears to be neurotic behavior. But do please note that some of this research has been rather inconclusive - and also we have to ask whether the experiences 
of animal relationships make any sense in a human context.}{\insrsid4348528 
\par }{\insrsid4348528\charrsid3866877 
\par Now, I want to point out here also that some more recent research has challenged the whole idea that the first few years of life are as important for later psychological health as is often argued. 
There are cases where at least human children have recovered from maternal or even relationship deprivation in their early years. So it does seem that many people are more resistant to early deprivation than is often supposed.}{\insrsid11806114 
\par }{\insrsid3866877 
\par }}