{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch12\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f12\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}Batang{\*\falt \'b9\'d9\'c5\'c1};}{\f39\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}@Batang;}
{\f40\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f41\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f43\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f44\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f45\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f46\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f47\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f48\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f60\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f61\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f63\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f64\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f65\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}
{\f66\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f67\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f68\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}{\f162\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Batang Western{\*\falt \'b9\'d9\'c5\'c1};}
{\f160\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Batang CE{\*\falt \'b9\'d9\'c5\'c1};}{\f161\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Batang Cyr{\*\falt \'b9\'d9\'c5\'c1};}{\f163\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Batang Greek{\*\falt \'b9\'d9\'c5\'c1};}
{\f164\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Batang Tur{\*\falt \'b9\'d9\'c5\'c1};}{\f167\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Batang Baltic{\*\falt \'b9\'d9\'c5\'c1};}{\f432\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 @Batang Western;}{\f430\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 @Batang CE;}
{\f431\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 @Batang Cyr;}{\f433\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 @Batang Greek;}{\f434\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 @Batang Tur;}{\f437\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 @Batang Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \snext0 
Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid7213417\rsid7697024\rsid8810277}
{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6775;}{\info{\author msandre}{\operator Jeff Chen}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy3\hr16\min29}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy31\hr13\min37}{\version5}{\edmins53}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords868}{\nofchars4949}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws5806}
{\vern16391}}\margl1319\margr1319 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\rsidroot8810277 \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 {\insrsid7213417 
\par }{\b\insrsid7213417 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid7213417 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  OK. So we've outlined several gener\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
al causes of species endangerment or extinction. To repeat, the main causes are the introduction of alien or nonnative species, climate change, habitat destruction, pollution, and hunting. So it should be clear that human activity is often at fault in the
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
demise, that is, the destruction of species. I'd like now to examine in more depth a particularly unfortunate example of what can happen to even a very common species, in this case a species of bird, as a result of human carelessness and ignorance. This f
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 i\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
nal extinction took place within the last hundred years or so, although the species had been endangered for some time before that. Some of you may have already guessed which species I am going to discuss. Anyone?
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid7213417 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Man Student:}{\insrsid7213417 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  Um, the dodo?
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid7213417 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid7213417 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 Well, yes, the dodo was, of course, a bird that was exterminated as a result of human activity, but I was thinking of a more recent extinction. And the species was at one time much more numerous than the dodo.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid7213417 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Student:}{\insrsid7213417 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  Was it the . \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 . . the passenger pigeon?
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid7213417 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid7213417 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  Uh-huh, that's right. What can you tell us about the passenger pigeon?
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid7213417 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Student:}{\insrsid7213417 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  Well, the passenger pigeon was once the most numerous species of bird in North America, and possibly on Earth. I read somewhe
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 re that it has been calculated that in North America they were more abundant than all the birds of all other species combined.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid7213417 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid7213417 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 That's true. The earliest records we have, which date from around 1630, describe huge migrations - movements - of literally billions of these birds clouding the skies. Some accounts claim that the flapping of their wings created a noise like thunder, and
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
the flocks took days to pass. Their nesting sites in the eastern woodlands of the United States covered hundreds of square miles. Well, you can't believe everything you read - and, to be honest, some of the accounts, even those given by well-known natural
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 i\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 sts, seem somewhat exaggerated. Whatever the truth, however, I think we can agree that this species was very, very abundant.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Now, the birds were originally hunted by Native Americans, the Iroquois tribe to be precise, who killed only young birds and left \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
adult pigeons to breed again, since the adult birds could produce offspring for several seasons. After the colonization of the continent by Europeans in the early 1600s, however, the habitat of the passenger pigeon came under threat 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 as forests}{\insrsid8810277 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  -}{\insrsid7213417 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  chestnut \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 and oak trees}{\insrsid8810277 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 ,}{\insrsid7213417 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 the main source of food for the bird - were gradually cleared and converted to farmland. This habitat destruction led, of course, to a steady decrease in numbers. The bird was also hunted relentlessly by the tribes, sorry, I mean the coloni
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
sts - the Europeans who had moved there - hunted them sometimes for food. They were consumed both by humans and by hogs, but sometimes, in fact, frequently, killed merely for sport. The vulnerable birds were clubbed, netted, and shot. Indeed, such destruc
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 t\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 ion was also seen as a good form of pest control, since the birds were considered a menace to crops.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Now, when the railroad was extended in the mid- and late-1800s, the pressure on the birds increased, as they could then be quickly and easily shipped to t\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
he markets of the growing cities as a source of food. Supposedly, it was very tasty meat. Despite declining numbers, the passenger pigeons still congregated in huge flocks and were such easy targets that in one competition, participants were - well, a par
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 t\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
icipant was expected to kill 30,000 birds just to be considered for a prize. I find that figure hard to believe myself, but the various sources I've checked seem to agree. The scale of the killing was certainly enormous. In the state of Michigan alone, a 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 b\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 illion passenger pigeons were apparently killed in just one year.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 In 1896, only an estimated 250,000 birds were left - that's in the whole country. Some accounts state that all these remaining birds gathered together in one large flock. Then a large group\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 of hunters - using the telegraph to coordinate their activities destroyed all but 5,000. In fact, around this time commercial exploitation was ended. Now, some species have been able to recover from a low number of individuals. With the protection of the
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 law, it could still have been possible for the passenger pigeon to escape extinction. Does anyone have any suggestions why the numbers of this species continued to decline?
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid7213417 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Student:}{\insrsid7213417 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  Maybe you know, hunting still continued. Just private individuals, \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 I mean, not companies.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid7213417 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid7213417 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 Well, yeah. But it is believed that once the commercial exploitation stopped that private hunting alone couldn't have wiped out the remaining birds. In fact, a probable explanation - reason - is that when the number\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 in any flock dropped below a certain number - the pigeons had trouble competing with other birds for nest sites. Of course, it may also have been difficult for birds to find mates to breed with if the individuals became widely scattered. Anyway, whatever
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 the case, it's clear that when commercial hunting stopped, the remaining population wasn't sufficient enough to build up the numbers again.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 The final years I find rather sad. A few isolated individuals continued to live on in the wild, but by 1909 only th\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ree passenger pigeons, all kept at the Cincinnati Zoological Gardens, were known to still be alive. The last of these, a female bird affectionately known as Martha, by the way, became a popular tourist attraction. In fact, I remember as a kid, my grandfat
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 h\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
er talking about seeing her. Well, the authorities even offered thousands of dollars to anyone who could find a male for breeding purposes. Unfortunately, the search was unsuccessful, and in September 1914, Martha died and, sadly, the species became extin
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 c\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 t.
\par 
\par }}