{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \lang1033\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\author msandre}{\operator Heather McCarron}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy3\hr16\min32}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy26\hr13\min46}{\version4}{\edmins3}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords468}{\nofchars2670}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws3278}{\vern16561}}\margl1319\margr1319 \ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale150\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\cgrid {\par }{\b Woman Student:}{ Hi. Did you get registered OK?\par }{\b \par Man Student:}{ Yep. I signed up for a heavy schedule again.\par }{\b \par Woman Student:}{ Yeah. Me too. What are you taking?\par }{\b \par Man Student:}{ Well, I'm down for Spanish Conversation II, the Spanish Novel, and an introductory Latin American history course. I've also got a couple of electives to finish up; one is a survey course in contemporary literature and the other in chemistry. Oh yeah, I forgot, just for fun, I'm taking a martial arts course for physical education. It's called Aikido. That'll help get me away from the books, twice a week anyway. So, what are you taking?\par }{\b \par Woman Student:}{ I'm taking a full load too. A couple of basic science electives, and I'm taking three language courses, two in German and then Elementary Spanish, just to get a feel for another foreign language.\par }{\b \par Man Student:}{ That sounds like a lot of language courses for one semester. I mean, since you aren't majoring in foreign languages. Why so many?\par }{\b \par Woman Student:}{ Well, I plan to do some traveling in Europe this summer, and I figure every bit will be useful. I guess my German will be good enough to get around easily enough, and I already know some French. I'm trying to pick up some Spanish, just in case I get to Spain too.\par }{\b \par Man Student:}{ Wow, I'm envious. You really are going to be doing some traveling. But aren't you overdoing it, I mean, aren't you also working at Dave's Hardware as well?\par }{\b \par Woman Student:}{ Yeah, that's right. I'll have to drop that job when the new semester starts, since the homework is going to be too much. I don't really want to quit, though, since I need the cash.\par }{\b \par Man Student:}{ Well, instead of taking all those language classes for credit why not just come to the Language Table?\par }{\b \par Woman Student:}{ Uh, what's that?\par }{\b \par Man Student:}{ It's, well, it's an informal club or group of people interested in improving their language skills. There are people, international students, whose native language is not English but who want to improve their English, and then English speakers who want to improve in whatever foreign language. So we pair up with one or two people and exchange conversation over a cup of coffee. It's a great way to learn without the pressure of grades - and also a good way to meet people from different places. Last week there were staff and students and even people not connected with the university.\par }{\b \par Woman Student:}{ Hey, that sounds great. I could get some real practice, and I'd like to meet some of the students from other countries. So, where do you meet?\par }{\b \par Man Student:}{ Well, we usually meet in that room next to the cafeteria in the student union building. The green room, but it isn't green anymore.\par }{\b \par Woman Student:}{ Oh, you mean the one that's just been redecorated?\par }{\b \par Man Student:}{ Yeah, that's it. It's a really comfortable place to meet. Why don't you come along on Monday?\par }{\b \par Woman Student:}{ Yeah, OK, I think I will. I could then drop one of my language courses and do something less academic, oh, like that martial arts course you're doing. That way I could still have time to work at Dave's. What time does that Aikido meet?\par }{\b \par Man Student:}{ Tuesday and Thursday at 4:00 in the main gym. You'd better get on over and change your registration before the course fills up.}{\b \par }{\par }}