{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \lang1033\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\author msandre}{\operator Heather McCarron}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy4\hr16\min32}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy26\hr13\min48}{\version4}{\edmins1}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords262}{\nofchars1499}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws1840}{\vern16561}}\margl1319\margr1319 \ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale150\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\cgrid {\par OK, you've all read about humans crossing the Beringia landbridge from Asia to the North American continent. Now, ice sheets would have prevented this penetration until about 13,000 years ago, so one could assume the first people entered between 11,000 and 13,000 years ago. That's the theory, which, however, has recently come under attack. So, let me mention some evidence that seems to undermine the "Clovis-first" idea.\par \par So first, several archaeological sites in the Americas appear older than the Clovis period. Some sites in the eastern United States may be up to 19,000 years old. That's a long time before Clovis tools were made. In South America, one site suggests the existence of pre-Clovis people as far south as Chile. Dating techniques put this settlement at around 15,000 years old, several thousand years before the first humans are claimed to have entered North America. And it presumably took centuries for humans to migrate that far south. So, we can say that the dates of these finds don't tally with Clovis first.\par \par Now, another finding which weakens the Clovis-first idea is that some of the oldest remains found don't look like the remains of Native Americans. They resemble people from the Pacific islands or northern Japan. This could mean that America was colonized by a variety of peoples. This diversity must have been reduced at some point - since modern Native Americans seem to be descended anatomically from Siberian people.\par \par A third problem is that DNA analysis suggests people from Siberia may have migrated to North America about 40,000 years ago - way before the Clovis period. The picture emerging here is very complex. It seems different groups coming from numerous places inhabited the continent and some seem to have come at a much earlier period than the Clovis theory allows.\par \par }}