{\rtf1\adeflang1025\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\adeff0\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f37\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f38\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f40\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f41\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f42\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f43\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f44\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f45\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f57\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}
{\f58\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f60\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f61\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f62\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}
{\f63\fbidi \fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f64\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f65\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tblind0\tblindtype3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid11809495 Plain Text;}}
{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid6379262\rsid11809495\rsid13004408}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.8106;}{\info
{\title Man Professor: So we've talked about the ecology of grasslands, areas of the world where rainfall is not enough to sustain thick forests, but enough to prevent desertification - that is, the spread of desert lands}{\author msandre}
{\operator jchen}{\creatim\yr2007\mo1\dy22\hr11\min46}{\revtim\yr2007\mo1\dy22\hr11\min46}{\version2}{\edmins4}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords663}{\nofchars3783}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws4438}{\vern24611}{\*\password 00000000}}{\*\xmlnstbl {\xmlns1 http://schem
as.microsoft.com/office/word/2003/wordml}{\xmlns2 urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1319\margr1319\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0\ltrsect 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\donotembedsysfont0\donotembedlingdata1\grfdocevents0\validatexml0\showplaceholdtext0\ignoremixedcontent0\saveinvalidxml0\showxmlerrors0\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180
\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot11809495 \fet0
{\*\wgrffmtfilter 013f}\ilfomacatclnup0\ltrpar \sectd \ltrsect\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid11809495\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11809495 \rtlch\fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 
\ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid6379262\charrsid11809495 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid6379262\charrsid6379262 Man Professor:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid6379262\charrsid11809495  So we've talked about the ecology of grasslands, areas of the world wh
ere rainfall is not enough to sustain thick forests, but enough to prevent desertification - that is, the spread of desert lands. I want to turn now to a discussion of a different kind of biome, or natural community, known as the tundra. OK, so as you kno
w, the tundra is a region of the {\*\xmlopen\xmlns2{\factoidname place}}Arctic{\*\xmlclose}
, lacking in trees, bushes - and covered, for the most part, in short vegetation well adapted to the inhospitable conditions. In fact, the word tundra comes from a Finnish word meaning "treeless plain." I guess you cou
ld say that's a pretty accurate description of what you find there - flat land and no trees. Today, I'm going to ignore the region known as the Alpine tundra, which is found at higher elevations in mountainous regions all over the world. This has similar 
characteristics to the Arctic tundra, but also enough differences that I think we can justify spending a separate lesson on its main features.
\par So, to understand the life systems that exist in the tundra, you have to understand that below the surface is a pe
rmanently frozen layer of soil. This is the layer called the permafrost - "perma," from permanent, in other words, permanent frost. Anything that grows there has to be able to adapt first to this impenetrable floor of frozen soil. What do you think could 
be one adaptation to this situation?
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid6379262\charrsid6379262 Man Student:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid6379262\charrsid11809495 
 Well, plants would have to have shallow, I mean, short root systems because the roots wouldn't be able to penetrate the hard layer.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid6379262\charrsid6379262 Man Professor:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid6379262\charrsid11809495  OK. That's right. So what about any rain that falls or wat
er from melted snow in the summer?  Where does that go?
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid6379262\charrsid6379262 Man Student:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid6379262\charrsid11809495  Well, I guess it can't go anywhere if the ground is too hard to soak it up and too flat for it to drain off.

\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid6379262\charrsid6379262 Man Professor:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid6379262\charrsid11809495  Right. So what you get is a kind of shallow waterlogged 
top layer of soil which freezes and thaws as the seasons change from winter to summer. So on the surface, marshes form and in low-lying areas and depressions small lakes and ponds are common during the periods when the ice and snow melt. This poorly drain
ed water on the surface provides moisture for plants. In fact, there is relatively little annual rain so this marshy wet ground is important for plant growth. So what about the soil itself? What would you guess is the nutrient value for living things?

\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid6379262\charrsid6379262 Woman Student:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid6379262\charrsid11809495 
 Well, since it's very cold most of the year, wouldn't that mean that dead organisms break down slowly? So wouldn't that mean a low level of nutrients for plants to use?
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid6379262\charrsid6379262 Man Professor:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid6379262\charrsid11809495  That's absolutely correct. Just as with the moorland biomes 
that we were discussing last week, mineral nutrients are in short supply - because cold waterlogged soil slows down the rate of decay of dead plants and other organisms. So the plants that do exist have to adapt to this special environment - a poor, shall
ow soil and a bitterly cold climate with strong winds. You mentioned the short root systems. But what other kind of plant characteristics do you think might be useful in a region like this?
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid6379262\charrsid6379262 Woman Student:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid6379262\charrsid11809495  Well, given the strong winds that blow, wouldn't it
 be useful to be short? After all, tall plants with shallow roots would be easily blown over.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid6379262\charrsid6379262 Man Professor:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid6379262\charrsid11809495 
 Uh-huh. True. And to add to that, of course, the short roots can only maintain short plants. So that's another reason why the plants are very shor
t. Another adaptation is that the plants cluster together in groups, often taking advantage of depressions in the ground to avoid the strong winds, and that helps them to resist the cold temperatures. Then, also, the snow itself helps them survive in thes
e conditions - since the snow effectively insulates against the bitter cold. When the snow melts in the spring, of course, the plants have a ready supply of moisture, making up for the low levels of precipitation in the region.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 
\ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid6379262 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid6379262\charrsid11809495 
\par So when the summer finally c
omes, what you get is a time of compensation, you could say. As you know, the summer sun never sets at these high latitudes, so the plants get sunlight for 24 hours a day. It's as though they work overtime to produce essential sugars and the other substan
c
es necessary for plant functioning from this continuous light energy. It's like the sudden arrival of summer - as if the vegetation as well as the insect and animal life were hurrying to take advantage of the relatively short time before the onset of the 
next winter.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af2 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid11809495 
\par }}