{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f162\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f163\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f165\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f166\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f167\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f168\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f169\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f170\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f182\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f183\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f185\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f186\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f187\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f188\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f189\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f190\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid6100489 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid3213406\rsid6100489\rsid8733480\rsid12612508}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6775;}{\info{\author msandre}{\operator Jeff Chen}
{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy3\hr11\min1}{\revtim\yr2006\mo6\dy5\hr14\min28}{\version3}{\edmins1}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords571}{\nofchars3256}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws3820}{\vern16391}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot6100489 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid6100489\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid6100489 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid12612508\charrsid6100489 
\par }{\insrsid8733480 OK. Let'}{\insrsid12612508\charrsid6100489 
s get started. Now, today I want to continue discussing changes in artistic movements in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. OK, so, now we've seen that in all the arts around that time, there was a strong movement away from what was seen a
s
 the restrictions of conventional ideas. Artists of all kinds were searching for more individualistic ways of expressing themselves - trying to break new ground, as it were. Now, this was particularly so in the art form of dance. OK. So remember now that 
by the late eighteen hundreds dance as an art form had become somewhat stale. There were few people trying to push the boundaries of inventiveness on the stage.}{\insrsid12612508 
\par }{\insrsid12612508\charrsid6100489 
\par Now, it was right around this point in time that a new free-moving, free-spirited dancer named 
Isadora Duncan suddenly became influential. Isadora Duncan is known nowadays as the "mother of modern dance" because of her important contributions to theatrical dance, and what I want to do here is take a look at some of the ways in which she was just so
 different from her contemporaries.
\par }{\insrsid3213406 
\par }{\insrsid12612508\charrsid6100489 
OK. So there are at least three ways in which she was seen as an innovator, as a new force on the stage. First, we have to consider that at the time in dancing, that is, in particular, ballet dancing, it was mostly the fe
et and leg movements that were highlighted. In other words dancers of the time focused their skills on highly ritualized and complicated movements of the legs.}{\insrsid12612508 
\par }{\insrsid12612508\charrsid6100489 
\par What Duncan did was to break away from this tradition, from this convention. She was, I think w
e can say, frustrated by the constrictions of classical dance and by what she felt was its lack of emotional impact. So she took to emphasizing the use of the whole body in dance movement. And this use of the body was inspired by natural forces, as well a
s
 folk dancing - and it included skipping, running, and jumping, and twirling - a continuous flowing movement done with skillful abandon and great passion. She believed that the movement of the body could express specific emotions, emotions like anger, joy
, and grief. Let me take a moment to mention that it is said that she learned these dance movements as a child - by imitating natural phenomena such as the waves on the beaches near her home in California.}{\insrsid12612508 
\par }{\insrsid12612508\charrsid6100489 
\par All right, so another of her great contributions w
as her innovative use of costume. Now, again the dance of the period was notable for its stiff shoes and tunics. Duncan just discarded the restrictiveness of these clothes in favor of loose-flowing gowns inspired by classical Greek models. She danced with
 loose hair and in bare feet, much to the astonishment of her early audiences. Again, I think we can see the influence here of nature and folk dance, things that conventional dance of the period had ignored, or, I think we can even say, scorned.}{
\insrsid12612508 
\par }{\insrsid12612508\charrsid6100489 
\par So, OK, th
ere was also another way we can consider Isadora as revolutionary in her practice. This is in her use of classical music as an integral part of the performance. She insisted that her art deserved to be performed to great music. For example, Beethoven, Bac
h, and Chopin and other great concert music accompanied her movements on stage. And this use of music was considered daring and original at the time.}{\insrsid12612508 
\par }{\insrsid12612508\charrsid6100489 
\par Now, you know, I think, looking back, it may be kind of hard to appreciate Isadora Duncan's achievement si
nce so many of her contributions to modern dance are nowadays, in a sense, well, taken for granted. In truth, she, at first, had to face considerable opposition from traditionalists, as happens to many highly original artists. Her, for the time, unconvent
ional techniques, eventually though, were widely acclaimed. Perhaps, all modern dance technique owes something to Duncan's inventiveness and daring, so perhaps because of that, her deep originality may not be as obvious to us today.
\par }{\insrsid6100489 
\par }}