{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f148\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f149\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f151\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f152\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f153\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f154\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f155\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f156\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f168\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f169\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f171\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f172\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f173\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f174\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f175\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f176\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid536913 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid536913\rsid3627952\rsid4224902\rsid6691261\rsid7090824}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6775;}{\info{\author msandre}
{\operator Jeff Chen}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy3\hr11\min14}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy16\hr15\min23}{\version5}{\edmins7}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords653}{\nofchars3724}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws4369}{\vern16391}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale150\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot536913 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid536913\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid536913 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid7090824\charrsid536913 
\par }{\b\insrsid7090824\charrsid7090824 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid7090824\charrsid536913  So, I hope you now have an idea about the most accepted theory of how the 
sun and the solar system were formed. In fact, many new observations are showing major problems with this traditional view of planetary formation. For example, some scientists are now saying that the time frame is all wrong - that planets may have formed 
m
uch more quickly than the standard theory suggests. And there are other problems too when it comes to the formation of the outer planets, especially about how and where they formed. Some people are saying we may have to revise or even abandon the standard
 model. As with many theories in science, it's pretty much open to revision.}{\insrsid7090824 
\par }{\insrsid7090824\charrsid536913 
\par But now let's move on to an examination of what happened inside the Earth in its early stages. I know some of you have studied Earth formation in other courses, but I want to fill in the gaps for those who haven't got this background. OK. So, about 4.6 }{
\insrsid6691261 billion}{\insrsid7090824\charrsid536913  years ago, the Earth was pretty much organized into a sphere and had a temperature of around 1,000 degrees. Note also that all the material forming the planet was randomly sp
read around. But at that point three things were happening which caused the planet to heat up further. So, what kind of things would cause the planet to get hotter?
\par }{\insrsid7090824 
\par }{\b\insrsid7090824\charrsid7090824 Man Student:}{\insrsid7090824\charrsid536913  All the impacts from rocks and meteorites and other stuff in space. When that
 stuff hits the Earth, that impact energy would be converted into heat energy. That would heat it up.
\par }{\insrsid7090824 
\par }{\b\insrsid7090824\charrsid7090824 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid7090824\charrsid536913  OK. Good. Well, sure, that's one of the three main causes of this heating. Certainly at the upper levels - the crust of the planet. Now what else?
\par }{\insrsid7090824 
\par }{\b\insrsid7090824\charrsid7090824 Woman Student:}{\insrsid7090824\charrsid536913  Uh, the sun would have heated it.
\par }{\insrsid7090824 
\par }{\b\insrsid7090824\charrsid7090824 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid7090824\charrsid536913 
 Well, yes. But I don't just mean warming the surface. We're talking about heating the planet right down to the core, the center. How did the Earth heat up so that iron, for example, could melt? That's at about 2,000 degrees Celsius.
\par }{\insrsid7090824 
\par }{\b\insrsid7090824\charrsid7090824 Man Student:}{\insrsid7090824\charrsid536913  What about radiation?
\par }{\insrsid7090824 
\par }{\b\insrsid7090824\charrsid7090824 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid7090824\charrsid536913  Yes, that's it. That is probably the most important cause of the heating up. Radioactive elements, such as uranium, within the rocks inside the pl
anet decayed, and as they did so heat was generated. In fact, radioactive decay is still going on but at a slower rate than previously - since, of course, well, there isn't nearly as much radioactive material left - due to this decay over time.}{
\insrsid7090824 
\par }{\insrsid3627952\charrsid536913 
\par }{\insrsid7090824\charrsid536913 OK. A third cause of the heating process was compression due to gravity. As the size of the planet }{\insrsid7090824\charrsid4224902 grew}{\insrsid3627952\charrsid4224902  }{\insrsid7090824\charrsid536913 
due to impacts from space, the gravity increased and the pressure itself contributed to the heating of the Earth's interior.
\par }{\insrsid3627952 
\par }{\insrsid7090824\charrsid536913 So, we have three main causes of the
 heating up of the planet. Now, just to repeat: impacts from the objects outside the planet, radioactive decay of the elements inside, and heating due to pressure caused by gravity. So over the course of a billion years, all these things eventually pushed
 
up the heat until temperatures were hot enough to melt iron and other rocks. Now, as you know, the Earth is composed of a variety of different types of materials - and so these rocks and minerals have different densities. So, that means that heavier, the 
d
enser material, tends to sink over time and lighter material tends to rise and float above the heavier stuff. That is what happens in a liquid or molten environment, of course. So iron in particular, being heavy, sank toward the center - and lighter rocky
 
material rose toward the surface. At the same time, gases escaped from the molten rocks and came out at the surface, allowing an atmosphere and oceans to form. When all this sinking and rising - this reshuffling process - eventually slowed down over time 
w
ith the gradual cooling of the planet - what we find is a stratified Earth; in other words, a series of layers with the crust - that is, the part we live on - being the lightest, then further down the mantle, then the outer core - and finally at the cente
r
, the inner core. So this process, called differentiation, led to the change in the arrangement of the interior structuring of the planet - and the formation of the atmosphere and the oceans. So, while originally, all material was homogeneous, randomly mi
xed around the planet, eventually we get a planet divided into different layers. This differentiation has been called "perhaps the single most important event in the history of the Earth."
\par }{\insrsid536913 
\par }}