{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f40\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f41\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f43\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f44\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f45\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f46\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f47\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f48\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f60\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f61\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f63\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f64\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f65\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f66\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f67\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f68\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid5271239 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid5271239\rsid13192519\rsid13762857}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6775;}{\info{\author msandre}{\operator Jeff Chen}
{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy4\hr15\min43}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy18\hr17\min1}{\version3}{\edmins2}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords294}{\nofchars1676}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws1967}{\vern16391}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot5271239 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid5271239\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5271239 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid13192519\charrsid5271239 
\par I'm sure you've heard of 
the Mozart Effect, a term coined to refer to the results of a neuroscience music/brain experiment. In this experiment, researchers were looking at one specific area of the brain, where the ability to think in terms of space and time - or spatial-temporal 
reasoning - takes place. This kind of reasoning is important in music, but not all aspects of music . . . and it's important in solving some types of physics and mathematics problems. Some types.}{\insrsid13192519 
\par }{\insrsid13192519\charrsid5271239 
\par The researchers chose Mozart's music because as a child prod
igy he used space/time reasoning at an early age. I'm uncertain of the relationship between a child composer's use of this reasoning to create a masterpiece and an adult listener's use when hearing it. Anyway, the experimental group - college students, no
t children - were given a pre
test just in their spatial-temporal reasoning. Then they were divided into three groups:  one heard no music; one, a variety of different kinds of music; and one group only heard Mozart. Afterwards, all the subjects took an int
elligence test. The results? Well, the Mozart group had increased scores on the spatial-temporal reasoning section. The increase lasted for 10 minutes. Only 10 minutes. Now, there are several types of intelligence tests that could have been used, but only
 one type was used in the experiment. One wonders if a different IQ test would have had the same results.}{\insrsid13192519 
\par }{\insrsid13192519\charrsid5271239 
\par The study was interesting, but I'm concerned about the reaction of the general public. The media interest in the belief that listening to Mozart's mus
ic can increase one's intelligence was followed by "help your child be a genius" books, popular magazine articles, and the flourishing market of videos, toys, and music products - all aimed at gullible parents. This is unfortunate because the real importa
nce of music, that of bringing beauty into our lives, is being undermined by parents foolishly attempting to turn their children into rocket scientists.
\par }{\insrsid5271239 
\par }}