{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f161\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f162\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f164\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f165\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f166\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f167\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f168\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f169\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f181\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f182\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f184\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f185\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f186\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f187\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f188\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f189\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid8478930 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid8478930\rsid12940923\rsid15947595\rsid16276619}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6775;}{\info{\author msandre}
{\operator Jeff Chen}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy4\hr15\min44}{\revtim\yr2006\mo6\dy5\hr11\min11}{\version4}{\edmins3}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords277}{\nofchars1582}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws1856}{\vern16391}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot8478930 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid8478930\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8478930 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15947595\charrsid8478930 
\par OK, now I want to discuss tidal power since I think it's a good example of an alternative energy source that we should look at critically. OK, now let's think about some of the possible drawbacks to the system. For a star
t, tidal power can never do more than provide a fraction of our total energy needs since there just aren't enough good locations.}{\insrsid15947595 
\par }{\insrsid15947595\charrsid8478930 
\par However, tidal power could still make some contribution at a regional level. But what about the environmental impact? First o
f all, the quality of the water in the estuary area will be changed, and this will have an effect, of course, on the local wildlife. Both the increase in salinity, when seawater is mixed with estuary water, and also the amount of mud and sediments churned
 up in the water will affect the birds and the fish. These conditions could stimulate the growth of the red tide organism, which causes paralysis in shellfish and affects many aquatic creatures. And much of the inter-tidal habitat could be destroyed, and 
this would have a devastating effect on birds and vegetation types adapted to these conditions.}{\insrsid15947595 
\par }{\insrsid15947595\charrsid8478930 
\par And what about the fish that naturally migrate between river and sea? Their ability to migrate will be hampered since they won't be able to pass the barrage. N
ow, it could be possible to make some kind of provision for them to move freely between salt and freshwater environments, but this would lead to expensive design considerations.}{\insrsid15947595 
\par }{\insrsid15947595\charrsid8478930 
\par Also, there are implications for the people living in the area. For example, 
fishing boats are normally moored in the estuary for protection from the rougher waters, but they'll no longer be able to navigate between estuary and open sea. In such a case, the economy of the whole area could be affected.}{\insrsid15947595 
\par }{\insrsid15947595\charrsid8478930 
\par So, all of these things are drawbacks of tidal power and need to be matched against the benefits of alternative energy production.
\par }{\insrsid8478930 
\par }}