{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch12\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f12\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}Batang{\*\falt \'b9\'d9\'c5\'c1};}{\f76\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}@Batang;}
{\f148\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f149\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f151\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f152\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f153\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f154\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f155\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f156\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f168\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f169\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f171\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f172\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}
{\f173\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f174\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f175\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f176\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}
{\f270\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Batang Western{\*\falt \'b9\'d9\'c5\'c1};}{\f268\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Batang CE{\*\falt \'b9\'d9\'c5\'c1};}{\f269\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Batang Cyr{\*\falt \'b9\'d9\'c5\'c1};}
{\f271\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Batang Greek{\*\falt \'b9\'d9\'c5\'c1};}{\f272\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Batang Tur{\*\falt \'b9\'d9\'c5\'c1};}{\f275\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Batang Baltic{\*\falt \'b9\'d9\'c5\'c1};}
{\f910\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 @Batang Western;}{\f908\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 @Batang CE;}{\f909\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 @Batang Cyr;}{\f911\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 @Batang Greek;}{\f912\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 @Batang Tur;}
{\f915\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 @Batang Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid15022949 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid3359135\rsid3548530
\rsid5121627\rsid5258982\rsid6099472\rsid7301286\rsid10900976\rsid12679337\rsid13255183\rsid14824720\rsid15022949\rsid15213919\rsid16473254}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6775;}{\info{\title Mesopotamian Cylinder Seals}{\author Jeff Chen}
{\operator Jeff Chen}{\creatim\yr2006\mo6\dy12\hr11\min14}{\revtim\yr2006\mo6\dy12\hr11\min14}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords580}{\nofchars3309}{\*\company Cambridge University Press}{\nofcharsws3882}{\vern16391}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot15213919 \fet0\sectd 
\psz1\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid15022949\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid14824720 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 {\b\insrsid16473254\charrsid14824720 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
Mesopotamian Cylinder Seals
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15022949 {\insrsid16473254\charrsid15022949 
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
Mesopotamian cylinder seals are small cylinders produced from about the third millennium BCE until the end of the first millennium BCE, a total of almost 3,000 years. These artifacts are usually around two to three centimete\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
rs in length and generally made of stone, although sometimes bone, glass, shells, or ivory was used. An \{G:521\}aperture\{/G\}
 runs down the center of the cylinders so that they could be threaded onto a string and worn around the owner's neck for security or\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
as jewelry. Wearing the seals in this way may have conferred good luck since such artifacts were thought of as possessing magical powers. The cylinders were in common use as }{\insrsid16473254 \{\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 H\}}{
\insrsid16473254\charrsid15022949 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 attested}{\insrsid16473254 \{\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 /H\}}{\insrsid16473254\charrsid15022949 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 by their widespread discovery throughout the Mesopotamian region and beyo\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 nd.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
The surface of these exquisite objects was carved with intaglio, or cut-into-the-surface designs. The motifs varied according to the region and period in which the seals were manufactured, but usually they included eye-catching depictions of animals,
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 gods, and victorious kings. Sometimes cuneiform, a wedge-shaped writing usually scratched into wet clay with reeds, was included in the overall design. A stunning example of the kind of scenes typically depicted is seen on a cylinder seal held at the Ori
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 e\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ntal Institute in Chicago. The impression shows the goddess Ishtar placing her right foot on the back of a roaring lion, which she restrains with a leash. She holds a scimitar in her left hand and her winged shoulders sprout other weapons to indicate her 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 w}{\insrsid14824720 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 arlike nature.}{\insrsid16473254\charrsid15022949 
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
Archaeologists agree that the cylinder seal was invented in southern Mesopotamia around 3500 BCE, although another kind of seal, the relatively simple stamp seal, may date as far back as 8,000 years ago. The techniques used for creating t
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
he image on the cylinder changed over time. Prior to about 1750 BCE the main method was a technique of chipping out designs with small chisels. When seen through an electron microscope the surface of designs made through chipping appear pitted and rough. 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 A\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
n alternative method was the use of small handheld files. This method was used throughout the history of seal-making although it flourished most widely from 1750 BCE to 1300 BCE. Also at this time artisans used small rotating drills, and these allowed the
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 m\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  to produce circular and semicircular shapes, which were incorporated into the figures in minute detail. From this}{\insrsid14824720 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 ,}{\insrsid16473254\charrsid15022949 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  }{\insrsid14824720 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 t}{\insrsid16473254\charrsid15022949 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 he most advanced method of engraving on the cylinders}{\insrsid14824720 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  developed,}{
\insrsid16473254\charrsid15022949 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  a rotating wheel powered by a bow. Th}{\insrsid14824720 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 is}{\insrsid16473254\charrsid15022949 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  technology permitted faster
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  production but required very skilled workmanship.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Cylinder seals had several related uses. Essentially they were used for identifying ownership of goods or to indicate that a message was genuine. Prior to the invention of parchment, documents such as ac
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
counting records, temple records, and trading receipts were written in cuneiform on clay tablets, which were then wrapped in clay envelopes. The seals were used to push an impression into the soft clay of the envelope to indicate that the message on the t
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 a\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
blet was genuine. A clay seal impression could also be used on moveable property items such as jars or baskets, protecting the items against theft since there appears to have been a strong taboo against breaking a seal impression illegally. The figure dep
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 i\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
cted gave an indication of ownership since each could be unique, and therefore, clearly the possession of a particular individual, in the same way as a modern signature is unlike any other. The ancient practice of sealing documents or property with clay i
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 m\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
pressions to confer proof of origin and provide security lives on in the still-used system of sealing important documents by making an impression in bright red sealing wax. And just as with clay seals, the condition of the wax seal indicates whether or no
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 t\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  a document has been opened or tampered with.
\par 
\par }{\insrsid15022949 
\par }}