{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f115\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f116\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f118\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f119\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f120\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f121\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f122\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f123\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f135\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f136\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f138\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f139\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f140\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f141\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f142\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f143\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid11936903 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid11936903\rsid15995992}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.4524;}{\info{\title Causes of Ice Ages}{\author Matt Worst}
{\operator Matt Worst}{\creatim\yr2006\mo6\dy20\hr11\min5}{\revtim\yr2006\mo6\dy20\hr11\min5}{\version2}{\edmins2}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords601}{\nofchars3430}{\*\company CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY PRESS}{\nofcharsws4023}{\vern16475}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale115\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot11936903 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid11936903\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15995992 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\insrsid15995992\charrsid15995992 Causes of Ice Ages
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11936903 {\insrsid15995992\charrsid11936903 
\par \tab Geologists have shown that for about 80 percent of the past 2.5 million years, ice-age conditions have prevailed on the Earth's surface. During the past one million years, increased glacial conditions have run in cycles of approximat
ely 100,000 years.
\par \tab Many different factors may contribute to these increases in glaciation at regular intervals throughout Earth's more geologically recent history. The three most prominent factors probably relate to the amount of sunlight that reaches th
e Earth. This varies over time for three main reasons. First, the planet \{G:111\}wobbles\{/G\} as it spins, due to the pull of the sun and moon. Furthermore, the Earth \{G:112\}tilts\{/G\}
 on its axis and the degree of tilt changes over time. Finally, the orbit o
f the Earth around the sun is elliptical and the length of the major axis of the ellipse changes over a period of about 100,000 years. A mathematician named Milutin Milankovitch discovered in the 1930s that the pattern of insolation, or sunlight, predicte
d by these eccentricities in the Earth's movement matched the period of the last several eras of intense glaciation.
\par \tab These Milankovitch insolation cycles were the dominant theory in ice-age research for much of the twentieth century despite the fact that 
the match between periods of peak insolation and most intense glaciation were not exact. For example, a cycle of 400,000 years predicted by the Milankovitch theory has never shown up in the climate records obtained through the study of microfossils deposi
t
ed on the sea floor. Also, recent analysis has shown that the insolation theory predicts peaks of sunlight at intervals of 95,000 and 125,000 years. Climatological data does not support this predicted sunlight peaking. Other damaging evidence was the indi
cation of a precisely measured sudden rise in temperature at a water-filled cave in Nevada, which preceded the increase in solar radiation that was supposed to cause it.
\par \tab }{\insrsid15995992\charrsid15995992 These}{\insrsid15995992  }{\insrsid15995992\charrsid11936903 and other problems with the Milankovitch cycles led some researchers to 
seek alternative explanations for the cyclic arrival of extended ice ages. In the 1990s, it was discovered that the orbital inclination of the Earth to the sun and planets could also be responsible for climate changes. If we imagine a flat plane with the 
s
un in the center and the planets revolving around it, the Earth slowly moves in and out of the flat plane by a few degrees, repeating the cycle every 100,000 years. Two scientists, Muller and MacDonald, have proposed that it is this orbital inclination wh
i
ch is ultimately responsible for the periods of glaciation and warming. They argue that because of the oscillation, the Earth periodically travels through clouds of debris, in the form of dust and meteoroids. Such debris could reduce the amount of solar e
nergy reaching the surface of our planet, thus plunging it into regular cold periods.
\par \tab The advantage of this theory is that it is not confronted with several of the problems associated with the Milankovitch theory. In particular, the new theory fits well w
ith the analysis of ocean sediments taken from eight locations around the world. This analysis yielded data clearly showing the peak of the last several ice ages with a period of 100,000 years and corresponding to the periods when the Earth's oscillating 
inclination takes it through clouds of extraterrestrial debris.
\par \tab However, many researchers in this field are not yet persuaded by the inclination hypothesis. The main problem is that the amount of dust that falls to the ground when the Earth travels throug
h space debris is relatively small - not enough to produce radical climate changes. Volcanic eruptions, for example, release much greater amounts of ash and dust and have relatively little effect on climate. Supporters have countered that the by-products 
created by the dust as it vaporizes on entering the atmosphere cause subtle changes to the energy levels. Nevertheless, the necessary physical proof has yet to be found to convince the skeptics.
\par 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15995992 {\insrsid11936903 
\par }}