{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f115\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f116\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f118\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f119\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f120\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f121\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f122\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f123\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f135\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f136\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f138\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f139\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f140\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f141\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f142\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f143\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid10115802 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid546898\rsid10115802}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.4524;}{\info{\title Bird Migration}{\author Matt Worst}
{\operator Matt Worst}{\creatim\yr2006\mo6\dy20\hr11\min39}{\revtim\yr2006\mo6\dy20\hr11\min39}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords595}{\nofchars3393}{\*\company CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY PRESS}{\nofcharsws3981}{\vern16475}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot10115802 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid10115802\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid546898 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\insrsid546898\charrsid546898 Bird Migration
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10115802 {\insrsid546898\charrsid10115802 
\par \tab The phenomenon of seasonal bird migration has been known about for thousands of years, but it is still not fully understood by scientists. Not all birds migrate, but generally speaking the more northerly the breeding ground, the more lik
ely is it that a species will migrate south for the winter. The main reason for this annual shifting of residence is that during the northern winters food becomes scarce and the cold temperatures make survival difficult. Some species are well adapted to t
hese harsh conditions, but for those that aren't, moving south to warmer conditions is advantageous.
\par \tab Changes in the weather can trigger the start of the journey south, although birds in the Northern Hemisphere seem to know when it is time to migrate south
 before the winter. In some species at least, the changes in the length of the day cause glands in the birds' bodies to secrete hormones that produce other changes, which ready the birds for the long flight south. At this time fat starts to accumulate und
er the skin, and this provides a store of energy for the long flight when they will be expending more calories flying than they can obtain during their brief rest stops.
\par \tab In fact, bird-migration patterns are more complex than the simple pattern implied abo
ve. Birds that breed in the Southern Hemisphere migrate north to wintering grounds. Other birds travel on an approximately east-west path since milder climates can often be found in coastal areas of continental regions. Some birds find conditions more sui
table at lower altitudes in a mountainous region and so migrate to lower levels in winter.
\par \tab Perhaps the most mysterious and as yet not totally understood aspect of bird migration is how birds can navigate such long distances and arrive so precisely at their destination. Various possibilities exist. \{SQ1\}
 The most obvious explanation is that they learn the \{G:121\}topographic\{/G\} features of their route. \{SQ2\} However, it is not feasible that this method could be used for crossing larger stretches of water or very long trips across whole continents. 
\{SQ3\} Another possible explanation is that some birds may use magnetic fields. \{SQ4\} Scientists have actually detected tiny crystals of magnetite in the \{G:122\}olfactory\{/G\} tract of some species, and homing pigeon
s have been shown to follow magnetic field lines of the Earth.
\par \tab A further possibility is that birds can detect the polarization patterns in sunlight. Some light waves from the sun are absorbed in the atmosphere, and some pass through. The resulting patter
n of light waves forms a large bowtie-shaped image in the sky. The image has fuzzy ends and is sometimes known as Haidinger's brush after the discoverer of the effect. The image is oriented in a north and south direction and is visible at sunset. Although
 birds may not see this shape, they can discern gradations of polarization, which give them a kind of compass for determining directions.
\par \tab Scientists believe that some birds navigate by use of star positions; this has been established with at least one spe
cies. In a series of studies, caged birds were subjected to the projection of the nighttime Northern Hemisphere inside a planetarium. All stars rotate around Polaris, the pole star, and this movement seemed to give the birds the information they needed to
 
orientate themselves in the correct direction. However, some recent research contradicts this. Perhaps it is not the lack of movement of the pole star but rather the constellation patterns that guide them. It has also been found that when fewer stars were
 visible on the planetarium ceiling, the birds' sense of direction became poorer. And this, too, implies that the general star pattern does have some bearing on orientation. 
\par \tab The current state of research suggests that all of the above-mentioned methods probably have an influence on bird migration. Different species use one, some, or even all methods at different times and in various situations.
\par 
\par }{\insrsid10115802 
\par }}