{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f115\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f116\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f118\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f119\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f120\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f121\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f122\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f123\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f135\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f136\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f138\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f139\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f140\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f141\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f142\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f143\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid12715024 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid2125531\rsid12715024}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.4524;}{\info{\title Radon}{\author Matt Worst}{\operator Matt Worst}
{\creatim\yr2006\mo6\dy20\hr11\min44}{\revtim\yr2006\mo6\dy20\hr11\min44}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords631}{\nofchars3603}{\*\company CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY PRESS}{\nofcharsws4226}{\vern16475}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot12715024 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid12715024\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2125531 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\insrsid2125531\charrsid2125531 Radon
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12715024 {\insrsid2125531\charrsid12715024 
\par \tab Radon is a radioactive gas that is invisible and odorless. It forms during the decay of uranium-238, and in decaying, itself produces solid heavy metal radioactive particles of polonium, lead, and bismuth. The parent element, uranium, is distribu
ted in rocks and soils in many regions of the world, although usually in \{G:131\}negligible\{/G\}
 amounts. However, concentrations of this element occur in certain rocks, and under certain conditions it is dissolved by underground water and carried over great distances before seeping into other rocks and soils.
\par \tab Since radon is a gas, it can move from the ground into the air, where it is dispersed by the winds. If it infiltrates buildings, however, it can build up over time and lead to serious health problems.
 In fact, the radon itself is chemically inert and so does not enter into chemical reactions with other substances. It is readily dissolved in blood and circulates through the body until it is expelled, usually before it has had time to decay. The health 
problems associated with radon activity arise from the radioactive products of its disintegration, mentioned above.
\par \tab The products of the decay process, especially polonium-218 and polonium-214, emit radiation, which kills or damages living cells, causing g
enetic mutations and cancer. These radon progeny are not dispersed harmlessly like radon itself but accumulate as the radon decays. Outside the body, these solid materials can attach themselves to dust particles and surfaces throughout a building and then
 
be inhaled. The decay products can also stick to tobacco leaves during growth and then enter the body when the tobacco is smoked. Inside the body these dangerous by-products of radon become lodged in lung tissue and the bronchial tubes. As these decay, th
e
y emit alpha and beta particles and gamma rays. Of these, the alpha particles can do the most damage since they are the bulkiest of the three and therefore cannot penetrate very far into living tissue. Because of this relative immobility, concentrations o
f the particle form and damage cells in the immediate area. Beta particles and gamma rays are less dangerous since they travel further and are less concentrated in the tissues.
\par \tab The primary way that radon penetrates buildings is through foundations. It ent
ers through cracks in basement floors, drains, loose-fitting pipes, and exposed soil areas. Radon also finds its way into water, although if the water is exposed to the atmosphere or agitated, the radon disperses into the air. Because of this, concentrati
ons of this uranium daughter are not high in rivers, but water drawn from underground sources into homes can have elevated levels.
\par \tab The chief health risk from inhaling radon or its daughter products is lung cancer. Scientists have concluded that exposure t
o this carcinogen is the second leading cause of this disease in the United States. Major scientific organizations believe it contributes to approximately 12 percent of the incidence in the United States alone. It is true that some research has cast doubt
 
on the likelihood of residential radon accumulations contributing to cancer rates. Other larger scale studies contradict the neutral findings. For example, a recent study of 68,000 underground miners who were exposed to high levels of radon shows that the
y are five times more likely to die of lung cancer than the general population. Smokers, whose incidence of lung cancer is significantly higher than the nonsmoking population, are even more at risk if they are exposed to high levels of radon.
\par \{AR\}It is now possible to have buildings tested for radon accumulation. In an average home, this is about 1.3 \{G:132\}picocuries\{/G\}
 per liter, which is considered an acceptable although not a totally safe level. If these levels are above 4 picocuries per liter of air, 
then homeowners are advised to reduce the amount seeping into the living space. This can be achieved through various means including concrete sealing and the installation of active ventilation systems. It is not possible to completely eradicate traces of 
radon since the natural outdoors level averages 0.4 picocuries per liter, but minimizing the amount is a prudent preventative measure.
\par 
\par }{\insrsid12715024 
\par }}