{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f123\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f124\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}
{\f126\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f127\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f128\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}
{\f129\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f130\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f131\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}
{\f143\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f144\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f146\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f147\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}
{\f148\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f149\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f150\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f151\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}
{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid12149225 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid12149225\rsid16740226}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.4524;}{\info{\title Two Atomic Clocks}{\author Matt Worst}
{\operator Matt Worst}{\creatim\yr2006\mo6\dy20\hr16\min37}{\revtim\yr2006\mo6\dy20\hr16\min37}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords664}{\nofchars3791}{\*\company CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY PRESS}{\nofcharsws4447}{\vern16475}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot12149225 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid12149225\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid16740226 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\insrsid16740226\charrsid16740226 Two Atomic Clocks
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12149225 {\insrsid16740226\charrsid12149225 
\par \tab The nucleus of a radioactive atom disintegrates spontaneously and forms an atom of a different element while emitting radiation in the process. The original atom is called the parent \{G:411\}isotope\{/G\} and its stable product is called
 the daughter or progeny isotope. For example, rubidium-87 decays by emitting an electron from its nucleus to form a stable daughter called strontium-87. Because the rate of nuclear decay is constant regardless of temperature and pressure conditions, radi
o
active decay provides a dependable way of keeping time. Radioactive isotopes alter from one type of atom to another at a fixed rate from the moment they are created anywhere in the universe. Since we can calculate the decay rate and also count the number 
of newly formed progeny atoms and the remaining parent atoms, we can use the ratio as a kind of clock to measure the age of minerals and other materials.
\par \tab The rate at which a radioactive element decays is known as the half-life of the element. This is the 
time necessary for one-half of the original number of radioactive atoms in a sample to decay into a daughter product. After two half-lives, the number of atoms remaining after the first half-life will have decayed by half again. Thus, the number of remain
i
ng parent atoms is reduced geometrically over time. With some elements, the half-life is very long. Rubidium-87, for example, has a half-life that has been estimated at nearly 48.8 billion years, much longer than the current estimated age of the universe.
 With other elements, this period can be as short as a few days or even minutes. If we know the half-life of a decaying element, it is possible to calculate the ratio of parent to stable progeny that will remain after any given period of time.
\par \tab Geologists 
use a sensitive instrument called a mass spectrometer to detect tiny quantities of the isotopes of the parent and progeny atoms. By measuring the ratio of these, they can calculate the age of the rock in which the rubidium originally crystallized. Because
 the number of progeny is growing as the parent is decaying and this is occurring at a constant rate, after one-half life the ratio is one parent to one progeny. After two half-lives the ratio is 1 to 3.
\par \tab Rubidium-87 has often been used to date rocks since it is a widespread element. Various elements including rubidium are incorporated into minerals as they crystallize from \{G:412\}magma\{/G\}
 or metamorphic rock. During this process the rubidium is separated from any strontium progeny that existed before the 
rock formed and so we know that the measurable alteration from parent to progeny can be dated from this point. As the radioactive decay of rubidium-87 begins, new progeny atoms of strontium-87 start to accumulate in the rock. In the dating of rocks using 
t
hese elements, it is important that the rock sample has not been altered subsequent to its formation by other geologic processes or contamination of any kind. Rocks as old as 4.6 billion years can be dated with some degree of reliability using this method
.
\par \tab 
Another radioactive element useful for dating is carbon-14, which decays into nitrogen-14. With a half-life of 5,730 years, carbon-14 decays much more rapidly than rubidium-87 and so is useful for measuring the ages of objects from the recent historical
 and geologic past, such as fossils, bones, wood, and other organic materials. Whereas rubidium-87 is incorporated into rocks during their formation, carbon-14, which is an essential element of the cells of organisms, becomes incorporated into living tiss
u
es as organisms grow. The ratio of carbon-14 to stable carbon isotopes in the organism is the same as it is in the atmosphere. When a living organism dies, no more carbon dioxide is absorbed and so no new carbon isotopes are added. The daughter nitrogen-1
4
 isotope, existing in gaseous form, leaks out of the dead organism, and thus, we cannot use it to compare the ratio of original to daughter as is done with rubidium-87 and its daughter. However, as the amount of carbon-14 in the dead organism becomes less
 
over time, we can compare the proportion of this isotope remaining with the proportion that is in the atmosphere and from this calculate the approximate number of years since the organism has died. Dating dead organic material by this method is moderately
 reliable in samples up to about 50,000 years old, but beyond that the accuracy becomes unreliable.
\par 
\par }{\insrsid12149225 
\par }}