{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch12\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f12\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}Batang{\*\falt \'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7EcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEcEcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEcE\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE};}
{\f37\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}@Batang;}{\f153\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f154\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f156\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f157\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f158\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f159\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f160\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f161\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f173\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f174\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f176\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f177\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f178\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f179\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f180\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f181\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}{\f275\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Batang Western{\*\falt \'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7EcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEcEcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEcE\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE};}
{\f273\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Batang CE{\*\falt \'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7EcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEcEcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEcE\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE};}
{\f274\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Batang Cyr{\*\falt \'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7EcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEcEcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEcE\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE};}
{\f276\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Batang Greek{\*\falt \'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7EcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEcEcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEcE\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE};}
{\f277\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Batang Tur{\*\falt \'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7EcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEcEcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEcE\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE};}
{\f280\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Batang Baltic{\*\falt \'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7EcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEcEcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEcE\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE};}{\f525\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 @Batang Western;}
{\f523\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 @Batang CE;}{\f524\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 @Batang Cyr;}{\f526\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 @Batang Greek;}{\f527\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 @Batang Tur;}{\f530\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 @Batang Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tblind0\tblindtype3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid4730839 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid3359135
\rsid3548530\rsid3627204\rsid4730839\rsid5121627\rsid5258982\rsid6099472\rsid7301286\rsid10900976\rsid13255183\rsid15213919}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6802;}{\info{\title Demographic Transition}{\author Jeff Chen}{\operator Jeff Chen}
{\creatim\yr2006\mo6\dy23\hr9\min27}{\revtim\yr2006\mo6\dy23\hr9\min27}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords658}{\nofchars3751}{\*\company Cambridge University Press}{\nofcharsws4401}{\vern16393}{\*\password 00000000}}{\*\xmlnstbl 
{\xmlns1 urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1319\margr1319\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120
\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot15213919 \fet0
{\*\wgrffmtfilter 013f}\sectd \psz1\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid4730839\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3627204 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 {\b\insrsid3627204\charrsid3627204 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
Demographic Transition
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4730839 {\insrsid3627204 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4730839 {\insrsid3627204\charrsid4730839 \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
Historically, as countries have developed industrially, they have undergone declines in death rates followed by declines in birth rates. Over time they have tended to move from rapid increases in population to slower incre\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ases, then to zero growth and finally to population decreases. The model which demographers use to help explain these changes in population growth is known as the }{\i\insrsid3627204\charrsid3627204 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 demographic transition model
}{\insrsid3627204\charrsid4730839 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 . In order to properly appreciate the demographic transiti\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 on model, it is necessary to understand two basic concepts: the \{G:421\}crude\{/G\}
 birth rate (CBR) and the crude death rate (CDR). The CBR is determined by taking the number of births in a country in a given year and dividing it by the total population of \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 t\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
he country and then multiplying the answer by one thousand. So, for example, the CBR of the {\*\xmlopen\xmlns1{\factoidname place}}{\*\xmlopen\xmlns1{\factoidname country-region}}United States{\*\xmlclose}{\*\xmlclose}
 in 2004 was 14 (in other words, there were 14 births per thousand living people in that year). CDR is worked out in a similar way. The CDR for the {\*\xmlopen\xmlns1{\factoidname place}}{\*\xmlopen\xmlns1{\factoidname country-region}}Un
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 i\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 ted States{\*\xmlclose}{\*\xmlclose} in 2004 was 8 per thousand.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 The first stage of the demographic transition model portrays a preindustrial era when both the birth rate and the death rate were high. Typically, women gave birth to a large number of babies. This was partly due to
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 cultural and religious pressures but also because families required a large number of children, since often many didn't survive into adulthood due to the harsh living conditions. Furthermore, children were needed to help adults work the land or perform o
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 t\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
her chores. The death rate was high due to the high incidence of diseases and famine and also because of poor hygiene. Total population tended to fluctuate due to occasional epidemics, but overall there was only a very gradual long-term increase during th
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 i\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 s stage. 
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
During the second stage, improvements in hygiene, medical care, and food production led to a decrease in the death rate in newly industrializing regions of Western Europe. However, birth rates remained high due to tradition and because many peo
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 ple were involved in agrarian occupations. The combination of a lowered CDR and a stable CBR led to dramatic increases in population starting at the beginning of the nineteenth century.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 In stage three, birth rates also began to fall. In cities there was \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
less incentive to produce large numbers of children, since city dwellers no longer worked the land, and the cost of raising children in an urban environment was greater than in rural districts. Furthermore, more children survived into adulthood due to imp
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 r\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 oved living conditions. These economic pressures led to a lower CBR and over time the numbers of people being born started to approximate the numbers dying.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 The final stage, which some demographers have called the }{\i\insrsid3627204\charrsid3627204 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 postindustrial stage}{\insrsid3627204\charrsid4730839 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 ,
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 occu\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
rs when birth rates and death rates are about equal. In this case there is zero natural population growth. Over time the birth rate may fall below the death rate, and without immigration the total population may slowly decrease. By the early twenty-first 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 c\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
entury, several European countries were experiencing population declines due to the CDR outstripping the CBR. For example, in Italy in 2004 there were about 9 births per thousand against 10 deaths per thousand.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 The demographic transition took about 200 y\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ears to complete in Europe. Many developing countries are still in stage two of the demographic transition model: births far outstrip deaths. In these countries, CDR has declined due to improvements in sanitation and increases in food productivity, but th
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 e\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 birth rate has still not adjusted downward to the new realities of improved living conditions. This imbalance of births over deaths in the developing world is the fundamental reason for the dramatic population explosion in the latter half of the twentiet
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 h\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 century. However, population statistics indicate that in many less developed countries the CBRs have begun to decline over recent decades, giving rise to optimism in some quarters about future trends. The rapid industrialization of many parts of the deve
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 l\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
oping world has meant that these countries have reached stage three of the model much faster than countries in the developed world did during the nineteenth century. This fact has led many demographers to predict that world population will reach an equili
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 b\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 rium level sooner and at a lower total than more pessimistic earlier predictions.
\par 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3627204 {\insrsid4730839 
\par }}