{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f123\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f124\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}
{\f126\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f127\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f128\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}
{\f129\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f130\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f131\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}
{\f143\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f144\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f146\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f147\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}
{\f148\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f149\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f150\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f151\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}
{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid1987153 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1987153\rsid2439323}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.4524;}{\info{\title Demographic Transition}{\author Matt Worst}
{\operator Matt Worst}{\creatim\yr2006\mo6\dy20\hr16\min48}{\revtim\yr2006\mo6\dy20\hr16\min48}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords658}{\nofchars3755}{\*\company CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY PRESS}{\nofcharsws4405}{\vern16475}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot1987153 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid1987153\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2439323 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\insrsid2439323\charrsid2439323 Demographic Transition
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1987153 {\insrsid2439323\charrsid1987153 
\par \tab Historically, as countries have developed industrially, they have undergone declines in death rates followed by declines in birth rates. Over time they have tended to move from rapid increases in population to slower increases, t
hen to zero growth and finally to population decreases. The model which demographers use to help explain these changes in popul}{\insrsid2439323 ation growth is known as the }{\i\insrsid2439323\charrsid2439323 demographic transition model}{
\insrsid2439323\charrsid1987153 . In order to properly appreciate the demographic transition model, it is necessary to understand two basic concepts: the \{G:421\}crude\{/G\}
 birth rate (CBR) and the crude death rate (CDR). The CBR is determined by taking the number of births in a country in a given year and dividing it by the total population of the coun
try and then multiplying the answer by one thousand. So, for example, the CBR of the United States in 2004 was 14 (in other words, there were 14 births per thousand living people in that year). CDR is worked out in a similar way. The CDR for the United St
ates in 2004 was 8 per thousand.
\par \{AR\}The first stage of the demographic transition model portrays a preindustrial era when both the birth rate and the death rate were high. Typically, women gave birth to a large number of babies. This was partly due to cul
tural and religious pressures but also because families required a large number of children, since often many didn't survive into adulthood due to the harsh living conditions. Furthermore, children were needed to help adults work the land or perform other
 
chores. The death rate was high due to the high incidence of diseases and famine and also because of poor hygiene. Total population tended to fluctuate due to occasional epidemics, but overall there was only a very gradual long-term increase during this s
tage. 
\par \tab During the second stage, improvements in hygiene, medical care, and food production led to a decrease in the death rate in newly industrializing regions of Western Europe. However, birth rates remained high due to tradition and because many people 
were involved in agrarian occupations. The combination of a lowered CDR and a stable CBR led to dramatic increases in population starting at the beginning of the nineteenth century.
\par \tab In stage three, birth rates also began to fall. In cities there was less
 incentive to produce large numbers of children, since city dwellers no longer worked the land, and the cost of raising children in an urban environment was greater than in rural districts. Furthermore, more children survived into adulthood due to improve
d living conditions. These economic pressures led to a lower CBR and over time the numbers of people being born started to approximate the numbers dying.
\par \tab The final stage, which some demographers have called the }{\i\insrsid2439323\charrsid2439323 postindustrial stage}{\insrsid2439323\charrsid1987153 , occurs w
hen birth rates and death rates are about equal. In this case there is zero natural population growth. Over time the birth rate may fall below the death rate, and without immigration the total population may slowly decrease. By the early twenty-first cent
ury, several European countries were experiencing population declines due to the CDR outstripping the CBR. For example, in Italy in 2004 there were about 9 births per thousand against 10 deaths per thousand.
\par \tab The demographic transition took about 200 years
 to complete in Europe. Many developing countries are still in stage two of the demographic transition model: births far outstrip deaths. In these countries, CDR has declined due to improvements in sanitation and increases in food productivity, but the bi
r
th rate has still not adjusted downward to the new realities of improved living conditions. This imbalance of births over deaths in the developing world is the fundamental reason for the dramatic population explosion in the latter half of the twentieth ce
n
tury. However, population statistics indicate that in many less developed countries the CBRs have begun to decline over recent decades, giving rise to optimism in some quarters about future trends. The rapid industrialization of many parts of the developi
n
g world has meant that these countries have reached stage three of the model much faster than countries in the developed world did during the nineteenth century. This fact has led many demographers to predict that world population will reach an equilibriu
m level sooner and at a lower total than more pessimistic earlier predictions.
\par 
\par }{\insrsid1987153 
\par }}