{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch12\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f12\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}Batang{\*\falt \'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEcE\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcEc\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7Ec\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEc\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E};}
{\f76\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}@Batang;}{\f148\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f149\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f151\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f152\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f153\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f154\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f155\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f156\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f168\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f169\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f171\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f172\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f173\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f174\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f175\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f176\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}{\f270\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Batang Western{\*\falt \'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEcE\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcEc\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7Ec\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEc\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E};}
{\f268\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Batang CE{\*\falt \'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEcE\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcEc\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7Ec\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEc\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E};}
{\f269\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Batang Cyr{\*\falt \'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEcE\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcEc\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7Ec\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEc\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E};}
{\f271\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Batang Greek{\*\falt \'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEcE\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcEc\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7Ec\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEc\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E};}
{\f272\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Batang Tur{\*\falt \'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEcE\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcEc\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7Ec\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEc\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E};}
{\f275\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Batang Baltic{\*\falt \'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEcE\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcEc\'a2\'aeE\'a1\'cbcE\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7Ec\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E\'a2\'aeEc\'a1\'cb\'a2\'e7E};}{\f910\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 @Batang Western;}
{\f908\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 @Batang CE;}{\f909\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 @Batang Cyr;}{\f911\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 @Batang Greek;}{\f912\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 @Batang Tur;}{\f915\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 @Batang Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid148419 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid148419\rsid997039\rsid3359135
\rsid3548530\rsid5121627\rsid5258982\rsid6099472\rsid7301286\rsid8799809\rsid10900976\rsid13255183\rsid15213919}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6775;}{\info{\title Finding Longitude}{\author Jeff Chen}{\operator Jeff Chen}
{\creatim\yr2006\mo6\dy12\hr17\min18}{\revtim\yr2006\mo6\dy12\hr17\min18}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords652}{\nofchars3718}{\*\company Cambridge University Press}{\nofcharsws4362}{\vern16391}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot15213919 \fet0\sectd 
\psz1\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid148419\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid997039 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 {\b\insrsid997039\charrsid997039 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Finding Longitude

\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid148419 {\insrsid997039\charrsid148419 
\par \tab }{\insrsid997039\charrsid148419 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
From ancient times, sea voyagers were able to calculate latitude with reasonable accuracy. They did this at night by measuring the angle of the pole star above the horizon and at noon by measuring the angle of the sun above the horizon. However, the probl
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 e\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
m of calculating longitude, or degrees east or west of a meridian line running north to south from pole to pole, was intractable. Even on land this calculation was difficult. In the 1600s, an Italian scientist published tables giving the times of the ecli
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 p\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ses of Jupiter's moons. From these tables it was possible to calculate longitude east or west of a given point by comparing the local time at which eclipses happened with the time given in the tables. This breakthrough did not, however, help ocean navigat
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 i\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
on. The unstable conditions aboard ships made precise observation of Jupiter's satellites a near impossibility. Other methods, including measuring the observed distance between the moon and particular stars, gave flawed results. 
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 In practice, mariners ten\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 ded to revert to a system called }{\i\insrsid997039\charrsid997039 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 dead reckoning}{\insrsid997039\charrsid148419 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
. This involved finding position by measuring speed based on observing a knotted rope thrown overboard, and a careful attention to changes of direction based on compass readings. Often calculations were excess\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ively inaccurate leading to shipwrecks and failure to reach destinations. In 1714 after a small fleet was wrecked with }{\insrsid997039 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 a }{\insrsid997039\charrsid148419 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
huge loss of life, the British government established a prize of 20,000 pounds for whoever could find an accurate method of determining\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  longitude at sea.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
John Harrison, an English clock maker, thought that he could build a reliable clock that would keep time at sea, although most scientists of the period did not believe such a clock could be built. Their skepticism was well founded; the 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
movement of a ship, the constant changes of temperature, and the moist conditions made accurate timekeeping an impractical dream. Nevertheless, Harrison persevered. The idea behind his approach was that a sailor could read the time on a clock set correctl
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 y\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 in the home port. On a voyage the time would be checked on that clock at noon (when the sun was at the highest point) on the ship. Every four minutes of difference would indicate one degree of longitude.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Harrison worked for seven years on his first marin\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
e clock. The committee responsible for judging the success of candidates for the prize was dubious about the design, but agreed to a sea trial. This test was successful enough that Harrison was awarded money to continue development. Two more versions, tod
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 a\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
y known as H2 and H3, were built over the next several years. The H2 version was not sea tested due to the danger of it falling into Spanish hands during the War of the Austrian Succession. The latter creation was abandoned by Harrison when he became diss
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 a\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 tisfied with its performance.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Harrison then worked diligently for thirteen more years and produced, at sixty-six years of age, a masterpiece of ingenuity. }{\insrsid8799809 \{\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 SQ1\} }{\insrsid997039\charrsid148419 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 This differed greatly in appearance from its forerunners. }{\insrsid8799809 \{\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 SQ2\} }{\insrsid997039\charrsid148419 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 It was only a little over five inches in d
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 iameter, whereas the other designs had been heavy instruments that needed to be hung from stout timbers. Mechanically, it was also a radically innovative design, using oil as a lubricant and finely worked wheels and pinions. }{
\insrsid8799809 \{\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 SQ3\} }{\insrsid997039\charrsid148419 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 After a two-month trip to Jamai\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ca, H4 was determined to have lost only a few seconds. In terms of distance, this represents only about one or two miles of error. }{\insrsid8799809 \{\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 SQ4\} }{\insrsid997039\charrsid148419 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
Clearly this latest apparatus had proved itself to be the best candidate yet for the prize. Due to professional jealousy by s\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ome committee members, the prize money was withheld. Finally, after much debate they agreed to honor Harrison with half the sum.
\par \tab \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 More successful tests of H4 continued while Harrison worked on H5, a slightly improved version. After three more years, Harris\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
on's case was taken up by King George III, who had tested H5 at his palace and saw how accurately it performed. The intervention by the king finally secured the rest of the prize money. Harrison was eighty years old and had spent half his life designing, 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 c\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
onstructing, and improving his series of remarkable seagoing timekeepers. The achievement had finally given mariners an accurate way to measure their exact position at sea, thus saving lives and speeding lengthy ocean journeys.
\par 
\par }{\insrsid148419 
\par }}