{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f116\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f117\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f119\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f120\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f121\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f122\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f123\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f124\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f136\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f137\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f139\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f140\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f141\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f142\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f143\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f144\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid10748351 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid5447162\rsid10748351}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.4524;}{\info{\title Cellular Slime Molds}{\author Matt Worst}
{\operator Matt Worst}{\creatim\yr2006\mo6\dy20\hr12\min52}{\revtim\yr2006\mo6\dy20\hr12\min52}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords600}{\nofchars3420}{\*\company CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY PRESS}{\nofcharsws4012}{\vern16475}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot10748351 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid10748351\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5447162 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\insrsid5447162\charrsid5447162 Cellular Slime Molds
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10748351 {\insrsid5447162\charrsid10748351 
\par \tab Cellular slime molds are extraordinary life forms that exhibit features of both fungi and protozoa, although often classed for convenience with fungi. At one time they were regarded as organisms of ambiguous taxonomic status, but m
ore recent analysis of DNA sequences has shown that slime molds should be regarded as inhabiting their own separate kingdom. Their uniqueness lies in their unusual life cycle, which alternates between a feeding stage in which the organism is essentially u
n
icellular and a reproductive stage in which the organism adopts a multicellular structure. At the first stage they are free-living, separate amoebae, usually inhabiting the forest floor and ingesting bacteria found in rotting wood, dung, or damp soil. But
 their food supplies are relatively easily exhausted since the cells' movements are restricted and their food requirements rather large.
\par \tab When the cells become starved of nutrition, the organism initiates a new genetic program that permits the cells to eve
ntually find a new, food-rich environment. At this point, the single-celled amoebae combine together to form what will eventually become a multicellular creature. The mechanism by which the individual members become a single entity is essentially chemical
 
in nature. At first, a few of the amoebae start to produce periodic chemical pulses that are detected, amplified, and relayed to the surrounding members, which then move toward the pulse origin. In time, these cells form many streams of cells, which then 
come together to form a single hemispherical mass. This mass sticks together through the secretion of adhesion molecules.
\par \tab The mass now develops a tip, which elongates into a finger-like structure of about 1 or 2 millimeters in length. This structure event
ually falls over to form a miniature slug, moving as a single entity orienting itself toward light. During this period the cells within the mass differentiate into two distinct kinds of cell. Some become prestalk cells, which later form into a vertical st
alk, and others form prespore cells, which become the spore head.
\par \{AR\}As the organism migrates, it leaves behind a track of slime rather like a garden slug. Once a favorable location has been found with a fresh source of bacteria to feed on, the migration 
stops and the colony metamorphoses into a fungus-like organism in a process known as "culmination." The front cells turn into a stalk, and the back cells climb up the stalk and form a  spherical-shaped head, known as the sorocarp. This final fruiting body
 is about 2 millimeters in height. The head develops into spores, which are dispersed into the environment and form the next generation of amoebae cells. Then the life cycle is repeated. Usually the stalk disappears once the spores have been released.

\par \tab The process by which the originally identical cells of the slime mold become transformed into multicellular structures composed of two different cell types - spore and stalk - is of great interest to developmental biologists since it is \{G:211\}
analogous\{/G\} t
o an important process found in higher organisms in which organs with highly specialized functions are formed from unspecialized stem cells. Early experiments showed which parts of the slime mold organism contributed to the eventual stalk and which parts 
t
o the head. Scientists stained the front part of a slug with a red dye and attached it to the back part of a different slug. The hybrid creature developed as normal. The experimenters then noted that the stalk of the fruiting body was stained red and that
 
the spore head was unstained. Clearly, the anterior part of the organism culminated in the stalk and the posterior part in the spore head. Nowadays, experiments using DNA technology and fluorescent proteins or enzymes to label the prespore and prestalk ce
lls have been undertaken. This more molecular approach gives more precise results than using staining dyes but has essentially backed up the results of the earlier dye studies.
\par 
\par }{\insrsid10748351 
\par }}