{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch12\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f12\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}Batang{\*\falt \'a8\'cfoUAA};}{\f39\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}@Batang;}
{\f156\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f157\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f159\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}
{\f160\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f161\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f162\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}
{\f163\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f164\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt \'a9\'88UAA};}{\f176\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}
{\f177\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f179\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f180\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f181\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}
{\f182\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f183\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f184\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}{\f278\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Batang Western{\*\falt \'a8\'cfoUAA};}
{\f276\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Batang CE{\*\falt \'a8\'cfoUAA};}{\f277\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Batang Cyr{\*\falt \'a8\'cfoUAA};}{\f279\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Batang Greek{\*\falt \'a8\'cfoUAA};}
{\f280\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Batang Tur{\*\falt \'a8\'cfoUAA};}{\f283\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Batang Baltic{\*\falt \'a8\'cfoUAA};}{\f548\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 @Batang Western;}{\f546\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 @Batang CE;}
{\f547\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 @Batang Cyr;}{\f549\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 @Batang Greek;}{\f550\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 @Batang Tur;}{\f553\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 @Batang Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \snext0 
Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid2763507\rsid15624989}
{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6775;}{\info{\author msandre}{\operator Jeff Chen}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy3\hr14\min3}{\revtim\yr2006\mo6\dy7\hr14\min11}{\version5}{\edmins12}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords692}{\nofchars3948}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws4631}
{\vern16391}}\margl1319\margr1319 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale150\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\rsidroot2763507 \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 {\insrsid2763507 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Now, last week we were looking at some Greek ideas about goodness. And we discussed Plato's idea about virtue and how to lead a good life. But today I want to start look\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ing at a more modern idea about what goodness is. Specifically, I want to look at the theory known as utilitarianism.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Some students here are probably familiar with this theory from previous courses, but it might be useful for you to think about it again. \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
OK. Essentially what utilitarians, that is, the philosophers who represent this line of thought, what they argue - is that the goal of human conduct is happiness. Therefore, they say that an action which tends to lead to happiness is a good one and that a
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 n\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 action that tends to lead to unhappiness is a bad one. This means the happiness not just of the person doing the action but the happiness of everyone affected. So, this theory contradicts theories of ethics, which argue that an action is made wrong or ri
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 g\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ht because of the reason or motive of the person doing the action. The motive is not the important thing for utilitarians. In fact, some of these philosophers claim that it's possible for a good thing to be done for a bad motive and also the opposite - a 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 b\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 ad thing can be done for a good reason. The important thing for them is whether or not the action promotes happiness or unhappiness.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 So, we agree then that acts have consequences - some good consequences, some bad, and some, perhaps, neither. But how does\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 a person measure what makes happiness? Well, according to the most famous utilitarian, the philosopher John Stuart Mill, happiness is caused by pleasure and unhappiness is caused by pain. Mill and others argued that only pleasure and pain have value in t
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 h\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
emselves and that happiness is a result of the amount of pleasure versus pain a person receives. They also say that we can compare the amount of pleasure or pain produced by alternative actions and decide which has better consequences.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 OK, so that's the t\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
heory in a nutshell. Of course, many thinkers have criticized it. For example, what do we say about an action that's considered wrong if on a particular occasion it leads to more happiness than the reverse? There may be occasions, for example, when tellin
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 g\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 the truth might hurt someone. Perhaps a lie would be a better action here. But isn't it always wrong to tell a lie? Well, utilitarians would argue that the widespread practice of lying, even for a good outcome, would result in a loss of trust and securit
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 y\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 and thus lead to more unhappiness in general. And that's why it's wrong. However, others, defenders of this approach, would argue that there are cases when, yes, it's sometimes right to lie or even to steal. So they would say that if an action, whatever 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 t\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 hat action is, reduces pain or increases }{\insrsid2763507\charrsid2763507 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 pleasure }{\insrsid2763507 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 -}{\insrsid2763507\charrsid2763507 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  it's}{\insrsid2763507 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  the\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  best thing to do. 
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 But, can we really decide if a particular action, with all its unforeseen, unknown, future consequences - can be judged as promoting happiness or not? I'm talking here about e\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ven simple everyday actions. Surely it's impossible or impractical to judge which actions would bring the least pain and most pleasure. For example, suppose I have a choice between attending an important meeting and attending someone's birthday party. Whi
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 c\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
hever choice I make, I may hurt someone. And life is full of such inconvenient alternatives. And while we're at it, what things can be counted as consequences, even before we try to measure the consequences in terms of happiness? What utilitarians say is 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 t\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
hat in practice, I should do the best I can based on a sensible guess as to which action will promote the most happiness. OK. So, in other words, I should act to maximize happiness for anyone whom I think may be affected by my actions, based on common sen
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 s\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 e.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
Now, other critics have pointed out that the value of life is more than just a balance of pleasure over pain. But, in fact, Mill's form of the theory did allow for differences in kinds of pleasures. Some pleasures he said were preferable to others. For
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 example, intellectual pleasures, Mill said, were superior to mere physical ones. However, in making this distinction, it's been argued that he fell into a kind of trap. If there are different qualities of pleasure, then how do we judge which qualities ar
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 e\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  better? To my thinking anyway, Mill did not really clear this up.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Whatever the weaknesses of this theory, I think it's important to point out that utilitarianism has had an important effect both in philosophical thought and in society. To this day, the p\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
rinciple of trying to promote pleasure and reduce pain is often used in institutional and political decision-making.
\par 
\par }}