{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f40\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f41\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f43\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f44\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f45\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f46\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f47\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f48\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f60\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f61\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f63\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f64\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f65\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f66\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f67\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f68\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid2690650 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid2690650\rsid5186828\rsid5660410\rsid7567335}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6775;}{\info{\author msandre}{\operator Jeff Chen}
{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy3\hr14\min14}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy8\hr11\min47}{\version4}{\edmins11}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords815}{\nofchars4648}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws5453}{\vern16391}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot2690650 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid2690650\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2690650 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid5186828\charrsid2690650 
\par }{\b\insrsid5186828\charrsid5186828 Man Professor:}{\insrsid5186828\charrsid2690650 
 Well, so far, we've been discussing some of the ways in which astronomers can measure the distance to stars and even to other galaxies. Today what I wanted to do is look more deeply at the discovery and importance of a very useful method of figuring out 
distances in space through a particular kind of variable star. Now, can anyone recall what is meant by a variable star?
\par }{\insrsid5186828 
\par }{\b\insrsid5186828\charrsid5186828 Woman Student:}{\insrsid5186828\charrsid2690650  Aren't they stars that, vary - change their appearance periodically? 
\par }{\insrsid5186828 
\par }{\b\insrsid5186828\charrsid5186828 Man Professor:}{\insrsid5186828\charrsid2690650  OK, yes. Now, in fact, there are th
ree kinds of stars that change their appearance. Some stars erupt. By that I mean they show sudden huge explosions of light. These are called supernovae. Then we have another kind. These are stars that orbit around each other and eclipse each other since 
t
he view we get from Earth of the further star is blocked temporarily by the nearer star. OK, so the amount of light that reaches us varies periodically. These are called eclipsing binaries. Both these phenomena are interesting in their own right. But I wa
nt to leave them aside just for the moment. It is the third kind of variable star that we're interested in today. These are the pulsating variables. This kind of star periodically expands and contracts, pulsating in size, temperature, and luminosity}{
\insrsid7567335 , }{\insrsid5186828\charrsid2690650 or if you like, brightness.}{\insrsid5186828 
\par }{\insrsid5186828\charrsid2690650 
\par Now have a look at this illustration of the light curve of a typical example. Notice how the magnitude, shown on the vertical axis, increases and decreases over time. Notice also that the magnitude rises rapidly to a maximum luminosity and then falls some
}{\insrsid5660410 what more slowly to a minimum.}{\insrsid5186828 
\par }{\insrsid5186828\charrsid2690650 
\par Now, one important kind of pulsating star is called the "Cepheid variable}{\insrsid5660410 .}{\insrsid5186828\charrsid2690650 " Individual members of this class of star vary in their period of brightness fluctuation or change of brightness. Some have a c
ycle of change of less than }{\insrsid5186828\charrsid5660410 two }{\insrsid5186828\charrsid2690650 
days and, at the other extreme, some take more than fifty days to complete a cycle of light variation. Because of this feature, the fact that they have differing periods of pulsation, they're very useful in helping us work o
ut distances in space. Do any of you know how they help us in calculating distances in space?}{\insrsid5186828 
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid5186828 Man Student:}{\insrsid5186828\charrsid2690650  Well, isn't there a relationship between the time of light variation and the brightness or magnitude of the star?
\par }{\insrsid5186828 
\par }{\b\insrsid5186828\charrsid5186828 Man Professor:}{\insrsid5186828\charrsid2690650  Yeah, that's it. You're absolutely right. Let me say}{\insrsid7567335 ,}{\insrsid5186828\charrsid2690650 
 though, it is better to be precise and say "period of light variation" rather than "time of light variation." To repeat: there's a relationship that exists between these stars' period of light variation and their brightne
ss. Now, I should mention here that this fact was discovered in 1912 by an astronomer named Henrietta Leavitt. All the Cepheids that Leavitt was studying were judged to be approximately the same distance away - since they formed part of a system called th
e
 Small Magellanic Cloud. See, she noticed that the brighter Cepheid variables took longer to change from minimum to maximum brightness. For example, she noticed that if a particular Cepheid had a period of three days and another of thirty days, the one wi
th the longer period was about six times brighter than the star with the shorter period.}{\insrsid5186828 
\par }{\insrsid5186828\charrsid2690650 
\par Now, since all the stars in this group were judged to be about the same distance away, it was possible to say that the period of fluctuating brightness of any star was
 directly related to its absolute, in other words, true, brightness. When I say absolute brightness, I mean really how luminous, not just how br}{\insrsid5660410 ight we perceive it from Earth.}{\insrsid5186828\charrsid2690650 
\par }{\insrsid5186828 
\par }{\b\insrsid5186828\charrsid5186828 Woman Student:}{\insrsid5186828\charrsid2690650  So, you mean a really bright star takes a longer time to p}{\insrsid5660410 ulsate than a less bright star?}{\insrsid5186828\charrsid2690650 
\par }{\insrsid5186828 
\par }{\b\insrsid5186828\charrsid5186828 Man Professor:}{\insrsid5186828\charrsid2690650 
 That's right. Yeah. OK. This in itself does not tell us how far away a particular Cepheid is. But it can be used to tell us the relative distances of two or more of them. For example, if two Cepheids are in a simil
ar location in a cluster of stars and have the same brightness, but different periods of pulsation, then the star with the longer period of pulsation has a greater real or absolute brightness. But also, if two Cepheids have the same period between maximum
 and minimum brightness, and one is much brighter than another, then the brighte}{\insrsid5660410 r one must be nearer the Earth.}{\insrsid5186828 
\par }{\insrsid5186828\charrsid2690650 
\par Now, astronomers found it was possible to measure independently the distance to this kind of star as long as it was relatively near. Measuring t
he distance to nearby Cepheid variables using other independent methods was a difficult task, especially since the light from most of them is obscured by clouds of interstellar dust. All that dust and material kind of got in the way of observation. But ev
entually, through a variety of other methods, satisfactory measurements were made. And once we had these distances, it was possible to find the real di}{\insrsid5660410 stance to any Cepheid variable.}{\insrsid5186828 
\par }{\insrsid5186828\charrsid2690650 
\par It is this information that gave Edwin Hubble a clue to the remoteness of
 other galaxies. You see, he calculated the distance to Cepheids, which turned out to be incredibly distant, and realized that galaxies which contained them were entire, huge, remote systems. Until Hubble made this breakthrough in 1923, astronomers hadn't
 
even realized this. Nowadays, Cepheid variables are probably still the single best way of measuring the distance to the far reaches of the universe. Even very recently, for example, the Hubble Space Telescope made accurate distance measurements to some of
 the most remote galaxies known, using }{\insrsid5660410 the Cepheid variable technique.}{\insrsid5186828 
\par }{\insrsid2690650 
\par }}