{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \lang1033\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\author msandre}{\operator Heather McCarron}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy3\hr14\min17}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy26\hr10\min59}{\version4}{\edmins5}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords582}{\nofchars3318}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws4074}{\vern16561}}\margl1319\margr1319 \ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale150\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\cgrid {\par So, today I'd like to continue our discussion about decision-making at meetings. You recall we were talking about Edward de Bono's ideas about the importance of looking at an issue from all possible points of view. We touched on his technique called "six thinking hats," or we can say caps instead of hats - since I've brought some colored caps so we can practice using this technique. And we said that this approach has many advantages over more traditional types of decision making, which are often time-consuming and more likely to involve displays of power and confrontation. So, as you may remember, there are six hats, each with its own color - and each color represents one style of thinking. Now, during discussions, people don't actually wear different colored hats, although I guess there's no harm in doing so if you really want to. So, whoever is chairing the meeting has the job of getting all those present to see things through the style of thinking represented by each hat color. In this way, it's possible for everyone to view the problem through different styles of thought and not be restricted to the typical thinking style they usually depend on.\par \par OK. So we've already looked at the first three hats, the white, the red, and the black. To recap, no pun intended, the white hat is the hat you wear when you look at facts and figures, for example, a database. And red hat thinking involves feelings and emotions. If you're wearing the red hat, you're permitted to say, oh, for example, that a proposal is bad or good based just on your gut reaction. You don't have to back up your feelings with logic here. Red seems the right choice since it is a kind of emotional color. And remember black hat thinking is the hat of caution and pessimism. When you wear this hat, you look at the faults, based on logic. While wearing this, you try to find the weak points in a plan. You ask why a particular proposal won't work.\par \par OK. So the other three hats . . . First, is the yellow hat. This hat allows you to think positively. When you wear this, you look at the benefits of a plan. Even if the plan looks bad, when you wear the yellow hat, you have to look on the bright side. What are the good points? For example, your company plans to buy new machinery. Well, under yellow hat thinking, you'll discuss the improvements to productivity, maybe quality, and so on. It's easy to remember yellow hat thinking. Think of a shining sun. That makes you feel happy and optimistic.\par \par So, OK, now the green hat. Well, this is the hat you wear when you are looking at alternatives. For example, how can you improve productivity and quality without spending money on new machinery? Oh, maybe you could spend the money in some other way, say, redecorate the factory cafeteria, for example. Would this improve productivity? Green is the appropriate color since green is the color of the environment and people who look for alternative forms of energy.\par \par Now, finally there is blue hat thinking. OK. This is really the hat worn by the chairperson at meetings. But it could be anyone. For example, someone could say, right now, I'm going to put on the blue hat and I think we need to do some more, say, black hat thinking. In other words, we need to look again at the bad points. So blue is about the process and control of the meeting.\par \par OK. So those are the six hats. I think you can see that this way of conducting meetings has obvious advantages. Everyone looks at a problem from all points of view. In fact, they are permitted to take on the role of say, the optimist role or the pessimist or the person looking for alternatives - and so on. Everyone gets a chance to see all sides of a problem. If you think about it, this kind of thinking is like playing a game. There are rules - that is, you must stick to the hat or role until a switch is made. And, so, if someone changes hats without authorization, then they're breaking the rules. Once the idea has caught on, people tend to keep to the rules, and everyone benefits.\par \par }}