{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \lang1033\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\author msandre}{\operator Heather McCarron}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy3\hr14\min22}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy26\hr11\min4}{\version4}{\edmins8}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords779}{\nofchars4442}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws5455}{\vern16561}}\margl1319\margr1319 \ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale150\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\cgrid {\par }{\b Man Professor:}{ Today, I'd like to discuss microenterprises, but first, I want us to think about how the traditional bank does business. Many of you may have loans - what are the requirements that a person who wants a loan has to meet? \par \par }{\b Woman Student 1:}{ Well, when I got a loan, the bank checked my credit rating.\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ Your credit rating, uh-huh. And how did you manage to get a credit rating?\par \par }{\b Woman Student 1:}{ I, well actually, my parents, a few years ago, got me a credit card and signed a paper stating that they would cover the expenses if I didn't pay all my bills. They, I mean my parents, encouraged me to charge a few things, get stuff on credit, and you know, to be very careful about paying my monthly statements on time. And I did - and that way I was able to establish good credit.\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ OK. So your parents helped you establish a credit rating. Anything else that a bank wants?\par \par }{\b Woman Student 2:}{ You have to have collateral.\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ Go on. What is collateral, and why do you need it?\par \par }{\b Woman Student 2:}{ It's like a security, kind of. A friend of my mother's had a small piece of property that was worth a certain amount of money, and she got a loan for its value. If she hadn't paid back the loan, the bank could have taken the property.\par  \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ OK. So collateral is a way that a bank can be certain that it gets its money back if the person cannot meet the loan. So you need collateral and a good credit rating. Anything else?\par \par }{\b Woman Student 1:}{ A job.\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ A job. Why?\par \par }{\b Woman Student 1:}{ Well, if you don't have a job to earn the money to pay back the loan, how can you pay back the loan? I mean, the bank wants to be certain that it will get its money back. A student loan is a bit different because the bank usually defers the payment of a student loan in order to give us time to graduate and find a job. But if I wanted to buy a house or a car or something like that, I would need to prove I had a job, I think.\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ OK, you need a job, good credit rating, and collateral to get a loan. What happens if you can't meet these requirements?\par \par }{\b Woman Student 2:}{ You don't get a loan.\par \par }{\b Woman Student 1:}{ Well, you could borrow from a loan shark.\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ OK, a moneylender. That's a more polite term. Unfortunately, that is what many people actually do. And what's wrong with that?\par \par }{\b Woman Student 1:}{ Well, for one thing moneylenders charge a very high rate of interest, which is hard to pay off, and if you don't pay it off, they might send someone around to threaten you.\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ So, in other words, if you don't have another legal way of obtaining money, you're stuck in poverty or at the mercy of a moneylender?\par \par }{\b Woman Student 1:}{ Well, yeah, I guess. Maybe, a friend could help you.\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ Perhaps. OK. So, what am I getting at? You don't have a job, a credit rating, collateral, a friend or parent to help you, and you need money. \par  \par }{\b Woman Student 2:}{ Well, there are many people in the world who are in a financial rut. Kind of stuck in poverty, and a bank won't help them because there's no way they could pay back a loan.\par \par }{\b Man Professor:}{ That's right. An enduring problem facing small-scale entrepreneurs has been the difficulty in obtaining capital - money - to start and run a business. One of you mentioned borrowing money at high interest rates from moneylenders, and this reduces the net income, or cash flow, of the borrower. This arrangement can trap a small-scale entrepreneur in a cycle of debt. So, what can be done about this situation?\par \par Well, an economics professor named Mohammed Yunus understood that because of the risk and the expense involved, traditional banks would not lend money to poor people. So, in 1983 he founded a bank, the Grameen Bank, in Bangladesh, in an attempt to remedy this situation. His goal was to help people escape from poverty by allowing them to borrow small amounts of money at reasonable interest rates without the necessity of providing collateral.\par \par Now, Mohammed Yunus discovered that poor people who borrow - or take out a loan - would maintain a good repayment rate if interest rates were realistically set and if certain other conditions were applied. These conditions included the use of peer-group pressure to monitor the loans and guarantee repayment.\par \par The peer group typically consists of, well, maybe five borrowers linked together through the life of a loan. The group takes a training session and attends weekly meetings with a bank official. The members monitor how the money is used and check the business plan of their peers because any one individual's chances of being awarded a loan are dependent on how well previous loans have been repaid. This arrangement reduces costs for the bank and makes the borrowers manage their businesses well.\par \par Another important factor in the success of the scheme is that the loans tend to be short-term and small, averaging only about seventy U.S. dollars. So, this reduces the bank's risk and doesn't overwhelm the borrower. If the money is fully repaid after a year, then a further and larger loan may be awarded.\par \par The success of schemes like this can be judged by the loan-repayment rate - exceptionally high - and by the fact that a high percentage of borrowers have been able to work themselves out of poverty through hard work and the support of these loans, what we call "microloans."\par \par }}