{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \lang1033\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\author msandre}{\operator Heather McCarron}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy3\hr14\min25}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy26\hr11\min7}{\version4}{\edmins6}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords531}{\nofchars3027}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws3717}{\vern16561}}\margl1319\margr1319 \ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale150\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\cgrid {\par }{\b Man Student:}{ Excuse me, Professor. Could you spare a few minutes, please?\par \par }{\b Woman Professor:}{ Well, I'm rather busy today. Could you come back tomorrow? My office hours are posted on my door.\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ Uh. I checked there. It says you have office hours now.\par \par }{\b Woman Professor:}{ Does it? Oh, is today Wednesday? I'm sorry. That's what happens when you suddenly get a new teaching schedule. So, how can I help?\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ It's about that research paper for the criminology class. I'm doing my research on how innocent people are sometimes found guilty.\par \par }{\b Woman Professor:}{ OK. That's an interesting topic. How's it going?\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ Well, I've done some background reading. And now I'm trying to collect statistics. I've got some good stuff online and at the law library, but I'm really overwhelmed with the amount of information, and I'm having difficulty getting it down on paper, into some kind of shape.\par \par }{\b Woman Professor:}{ OK. That's a common enough problem. I hear it a lot. Well, what exactly are you trying to say in the paper?\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ Well, I have data on the causes of false guilty verdicts, and ways to improve the criminal justice system, and information about how successful the appeals process is. I've also read several case studies about individuals who were found out to be innocent after spending time in prison.\par \par }{\b Woman Professor:}{ It sounds to me like you're trying to do too much. Perhaps you should try to narrow this down. You can only expect to do so much in one semester. I'd suggest you try to make yourself, think of yourself as a kind of expert in one narrow part of this field. For example, you could focus on, say the use of DNA testing in overturning bad convictions. There's a lot of stuff out there on just that topic. What about that? But don't let me make your decision for you. You're the person who has to decide.\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ That sounds like a good idea. I have some stuff on DNA lab results that is very interesting. It's been used to get several innocent people released from prison. Also, they've used it to prove who the real criminal is in some cases. Sometimes many years after the crime was committed. So it works both ways, I guess.\par \par }{\b Woman Professor:}{ Uh-hum. But do you think that should be in a paper of this kind? I mean about finding the real criminal.\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ Well, it would be interesting to show how much can be done with DNA.\par \par }{\b Woman Professor:}{ Yes, OK. That's one line you could take, but again I think you're trying to take on too much. I'm looking for good focus here, not a broad survey. But don't forget, it's your choice. By the way, if you decide to limit your focus to the use of DNA sampling in proving innocence in convicted people, I can maybe get one or two names of people who you could contact for an interview if they agree. These would be victims, people who were imprisoned unfairly. That would flesh out the statistics. If you're interested . . .\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ Oh, great. That would be really good. I would really appreciate that, thank you. I think I'll go ahead with the kind of focus you've suggested since I've got a good start on the background reading. Can I come by tomorrow for the names of those people I can interview?\par \par }{\b Woman Professor:}{ No, perhaps it's better if I just send you an e-mail. I have to make a couple of phone calls first to check who might be available, and of course, if they're willing to be interviewed. But in the past people have been quite helpful and don't mind helping out students. OK. Let me make a note to myself . . . I'll send you an e-mail within a day or two.\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ OK. Well thanks very much for your time. Bye.\par \par }{\b Woman Professor:}{ OK. Bye.\par \par }}