{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \lang1033\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\author msandre}{\operator Heather McCarron}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy4\hr16\min4}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy26\hr11\min12}{\version4}{\edmins3}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords304}{\nofchars1735}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws2130}{\vern16561}}\margl1319\margr1319 \ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale150\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\cgrid {\par }{\b Man Student:}{ Hey, you coming to the movie with us tonight?\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ Nope. Don't have money.\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ You're always broke. How come you don't look for a job?\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ Because a job would interfere with my studies.\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ Well, that depends. A full-time job would, but there are part-time jobs around.\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ Yeah, I saw the notice that they're looking for evening help in the student cafeteria. But even though it's part-time, working every night would cut into my study time. I'd get back to the dorm late after working and then have to stay up all night to catch up.\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ There are other jobs than that. You know I work concessions. They always need people to sell refreshments and junk food at university sports events and concerts.\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ What would be the advantages of working there?\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ Well, for one thing it's a weekend job, so it wouldn't affect your studies.\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ Yeah, well, that'd be OK.\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ So how much do you spend on concerts and ball games?\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ I didn't buy a student pass . . . to save money. So I've been to only one game. My sister gave me the ticket for my birthday.\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ Well, you see, with a concession job, you'd be at all the activities. And getting paid.\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ You mean that I could see the games and concerts and earn money!\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ Well, not really see them 'cause you'd be at the concession stand, but you can hear the announcers, and it's kind of fun when excited fans come for refreshments and tell you what's happening. Better than nothing, huh?\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ Yeah, sort of.\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ And we take turns working the stands so that you can see some of the game . . . or concert . . . or whatever.\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ So how much does it pay?\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ Well, not as much as the cafeteria job. But if you just need some extra cash . . .\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ And how do I apply?\par \par }{\b Man Student:}{ I could take you over to meet Mr. Jennings . . . he's the guy in charge. On Friday afternoon, say? You might be able to start right away.\par \par }{\b Woman Student:}{ Great.\par \par }}