{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \lang1033\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\author msandre}{\operator Heather McCarron}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy4\hr16\min6}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy26\hr11\min10}{\version4}{\edmins3}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords236}{\nofchars1350}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws1657}{\vern16561}}\margl1319\margr1319 \ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale150\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\cgrid {\par OK. Remember yesterday we talked about how rain containing carbon dioxide absorbed from the air and the soil forms a weak acid solution that soaks into the ground, and in areas of limestone, seeps along cracks in the limestone? The acid in the rain dissolves the limestone, and this forms caves and channels. So over thousands of years an area may become honeycombed with caverns and underground streams.\par \par Today, I want to go on to a particular feature of limestone terrain called the sinkhole. Sinkholes are hollows in the ground that can be from a few meters to several hundred meters deep. They are usually circular or oval in shape. In other words, a big hole in the ground. There are three different kinds of sinkholes, but right now I want to discuss perhaps the most dramatic, the collapse sinkhole.\par \par So, how do sinkholes relate to the limestone caverns we were talking about yesterday? Now remember we have the cave in the limestone. Well, sometimes the cave becomes too large and the roof becomes thinner and weaker. Eventually the roof can no longer support the weight of the land above it and the water soaking into that land. So the roof of the cave gets weak, and suddenly, bam, the roof collapses, thus the name collapse sinkhole.\par \par OK, so we can recognize this type of sinkhole by the steep sides formed by that sudden collapse. These sinkholes have become more common in recent years, mainly due to human activity, which often interferes with the natural flow of underground water. For example, we sometimes read in the newspaper about a house or section of road falling into a sinkhole when the roof of a cave collapses.\par \par }}