{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch12\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f12\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}Batang{\*\falt \'a1\'a7IoUAA};}{\f76\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}@Batang;}
{\f149\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f150\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f152\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f153\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f154\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f155\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f156\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f157\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f169\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f170\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f172\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f173\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}
{\f174\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f175\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f176\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f177\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}
{\f271\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Batang Western{\*\falt \'a1\'a7IoUAA};}{\f269\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Batang CE{\*\falt \'a1\'a7IoUAA};}{\f270\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Batang Cyr{\*\falt \'a1\'a7IoUAA};}
{\f272\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Batang Greek{\*\falt \'a1\'a7IoUAA};}{\f273\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Batang Tur{\*\falt \'a1\'a7IoUAA};}{\f276\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Batang Baltic{\*\falt \'a1\'a7IoUAA};}{\f911\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 @Batang Western;}
{\f909\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 @Batang CE;}{\f910\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 @Batang Cyr;}{\f912\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 @Batang Greek;}{\f913\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 @Batang Tur;}{\f916\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 @Batang Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid2378964 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid2378964\rsid3359135
\rsid3548530\rsid5121627\rsid5258982\rsid6099472\rsid6251339\rsid7301286\rsid10900976\rsid13255183\rsid15213919\rsid16529331}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6775;}{\info{\author Jeff Chen}{\operator Jeff Chen}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy2\hr17\min34}
{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy3\hr16\min58}{\version3}{\edmins0}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords586}{\nofchars3343}{\*\company Cambridge University Press}{\nofcharsws3922}{\vern16391}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot15213919 \fet0\sectd 
\psz1\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid2378964\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2378964 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 {\insrsid6251339\charrsid2378964 
\par }{\insrsid6251339\charrsid2378964 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
So today I want to go over the main points about what's called the Electoral College, that is, the way that presidents are chosen in the United States. Also vice presidents too, of course. Now - so\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
me of you may think that the president is the candidate who gets the most votes from the voting public. Often that's true. But the way it works, it's not necessarily the one who gets the most votes from the public. In practice, it's the candidate who wins
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 the most votes from the Electoral College. OK. So let me try to make this clear.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 First of all, what is an elector? Well, an elector is a person - a member of a political party - who has been chosen by that party in a given state. OK, so this person, this \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
elector, is pledged to his or her party's candidate for president. So in any state there are several electors. The number of electors in a state is equal to the number of U.S. Senators plus the number of U.S. Representatives in that state. Don't get confu
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 s\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 ed here. The senators and representatives are }{\insrsid6251339\charrsid16529331 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 not}{\insrsid6251339\charrsid2378964 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 the same people as the electors. It's just that the numbers are the same. So . . . there are always two senators in each state, as you know, but the number of representatives depends on the population of th\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
e state. So a populous state has several representatives and a state without a lot of people will have only a few representatives. Some states, such as Alaska, which has a small population, for example, have only one representative at the current time. Th
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 a\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 t means that Alaska will have three electors chosen by each political party. In total, there are currently 538 electoral votes in the whole country.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 OK. So what happens when you vote in the presidential election? Well, what you have when you vote is a bal\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
lot - which normally says "Electors for" and then the names of each of the presidential candidates running. So you choose "Electors for" the candidate of your choice. 
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Here's the interesting part, in a way. Whichever candidate wins the most popular votes \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
in a state also wins all the electors of that state. So back to the case of Alaska: the candidate who wins the greatest share of the vote from the general public wins three electoral votes. Those three electors become the electors of that state. Now, OK, 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 t\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 here are a couple of exceptions to that - but we'll have a look at those next week. 
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Now the election for president, where all the voting public cast their votes, is, as you know, in early November. OK. So, the electors of the state, remember, these are t\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
he people who were in effect chosen through popular vote - and who will vote for the candidate of their party - meet in December and they cast their votes, one for the president and one for the vice president. 
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 OK, so the candidate with the most Electoral\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 College votes, provided it's an absolute majority, that is, over half the total of Electoral College votes, is declared president. The same goes for the vice president. If no one gets an absolute majority, then the U.S. House of Representatives chooses t
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 h\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 e president from among the top candidates. 
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Well, there are also some problems associated with this system that you will hear raised from time to time. One problem, for example, that I can mention right off the bat, is that it's possible that the person w
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ho is declared president through having won the most Electoral College votes may not have won the majority of the general public's votes. This has to do with the fact that the distribution of electoral votes tends to over-represent people in less populous
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
states. Now those who favor this system point out, however, that it more accurately represents all parts of the country, not just the metropolitan populous regions. So, in effect, it balances out rural and urban regions - and contributes to national cohes
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 i\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 on. There are several other things that opponents of this system have put forward, but I'd like you to read up on those before we meet next week.
\par }{\insrsid2378964 
\par }}