{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch12\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f12\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}Batang{\*\falt \'a8\'cfoUAA};}{\f76\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}@Batang;}
{\f154\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f155\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f157\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f158\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f159\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f160\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f161\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f162\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f174\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f175\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f177\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f178\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}
{\f179\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f180\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f181\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f182\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}
{\f276\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Batang Western{\*\falt \'a8\'cfoUAA};}{\f274\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Batang CE{\*\falt \'a8\'cfoUAA};}{\f275\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Batang Cyr{\*\falt \'a8\'cfoUAA};}
{\f277\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Batang Greek{\*\falt \'a8\'cfoUAA};}{\f278\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Batang Tur{\*\falt \'a8\'cfoUAA};}{\f281\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Batang Baltic{\*\falt \'a8\'cfoUAA};}{\f916\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 @Batang Western;}
{\f914\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 @Batang CE;}{\f915\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 @Batang Cyr;}{\f917\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 @Batang Greek;}{\f918\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 @Batang Tur;}{\f921\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 @Batang Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid1115228 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1115228\rsid3359135
\rsid3548530\rsid5121627\rsid5258982\rsid6099472\rsid7301286\rsid7436902\rsid10900976\rsid13255183\rsid15213919}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6775;}{\info{\author Jeff Chen}{\operator Jeff Chen}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy2\hr17\min45}
{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy2\hr17\min45}{\version2}{\edmins2}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords674}{\nofchars3846}{\*\company Cambridge University Press}{\nofcharsws4511}{\vern16391}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale127\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot15213919 \fet0\sectd 
\psz1\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid1115228\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1115228 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 {\insrsid7436902\charrsid1115228 
\par }{\b\insrsid7436902\charrsid7436902 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid7436902\charrsid1115228 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 We've been concentrating on formal letters in business communications, but today I'd like to talk about some issues in using e-mail. Actually, we'll be looking at this topic for the next couple of class sessions, as it's likely much of y
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 our written communication in business will be done with e-mail - and the etiquette of using e-mail is extremely important in the business world.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 So, OK, there are two types of e-mails that you'll be using in business: internal, those sent within the off\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 ice, and the external - customers, suppliers, agencies.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Now, we discussed the paper letter and how it could get separated from its envelope. So it's essential for a paper letter to have all the receiver/sender information in the letter itself. Now, most\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 e-mail programs include the receiver/sender information - so the message can't get separated from this information. But, there are a few options that some people are not aware of - and unfortunately, not all programs have all these options. OK. Let's say
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
there are thirty people in the office where you work and you want to tell them about a change in policy. How do you set up your e-mail? I mean, who do you send this message to? What do you put into the box?
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid7436902\charrsid7436902 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Man Student:}{\insrsid7436902\charrsid1115228 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  Well, I'd put the names into the \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
"to" box, you know, the box where I put the names of the people who will get the message.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid7436902\charrsid7436902 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid7436902\charrsid1115228 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  OK. So you would type all 30 names into the receiver box?
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid7436902\charrsid7436902 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Man Student:}{\insrsid7436902\charrsid1115228 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  Well, probably not type. I might make a mistake. I'd copy them in - or u\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
se the "reply to all" icon from another e-mail, and of course, I change the message and the subject.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid7436902\charrsid7436902 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid7436902\charrsid1115228 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  OK. That is one way. Yes?
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid7436902\charrsid7436902 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Student:}{\insrsid7436902\charrsid1115228 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  Um, yeah, I have to do a lot of official e-mails, and I get really annoyed when people send
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  me a message with lots of names in it. Sometimes I print out the message - and I get three pages of people's addresses for half a page of message.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid7436902\charrsid7436902 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid7436902\charrsid1115228 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  So what do you suggest?
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid7436902\charrsid7436902 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Student:}{\insrsid7436902\charrsid1115228 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  Well, I usually set up my address book so that\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 I can put all the names of people into one group. And then when I want to send them all a message, I just put the name of the group into the receiver box - and then everyone gets the message. That way, if they print it out, then only the name of the grou
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 p\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  is on the page.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid7436902\charrsid7436902 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Man Student:}{\insrsid7436902\charrsid1115228 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 Yeah, I don't like that because . . . well, what annoys me is I need someone's address, right? So, I go to a message to get it and it isn't there - because just the group name is there. Or I want to see if everyone is on th\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
e list and that no one has been left out.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid7436902\charrsid7436902 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid7436902\charrsid1115228 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 OK. So we have two differing opinions on what to put into the receiver box for mail within a company. We'll come back to this point in a moment. Now, let's change the audience. Suppose the messa\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ge is that you'll be moving to a new office, and you want to tell all your customers the new location.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid7436902\charrsid7436902 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Man Student:}{\insrsid7436902\charrsid1115228 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 Well, that's different then. 'Cause you can't put all the customers' names and addresses into the receiver box. I mean, that's private in\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 formation, isn't it? So you gotta use a group name . . .
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid7436902\charrsid7436902 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Student:}{\insrsid7436902\charrsid1115228 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 No, I don't agree. I mean, I do agree that it's important to have customer anonymity, but if you put a group name, then it isn't personalized. I really think the customer wants to b\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
e addressed by their name, not something like "customer group." Using a name is saying "You are an important individual" instead of "You're just a name on this list."
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid7436902\charrsid7436902 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid7436902\charrsid1115228 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  So what would you do? You don't want to put their names in a list for\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 all to see, and you don't want to address them impersonally.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid7436902\charrsid7436902 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Student:}{\insrsid7436902\charrsid1115228 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 Well, I guess I would write to them individually so that I could keep, well, maintain privacy and still be sort of personal.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid7436902\charrsid7436902 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid7436902\charrsid1115228 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  That sounds like a lengthy proc\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ess - especially if your customers are in the thousands. A lot of work. Any other suggestions? No one? OK. Remember when we were discussing the formal business letter, we talked about a "blind copy"? Remember how you use a blind copy when you don't want t
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 h\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
e receiver to know who else is receiving copies? Most e-mail systems have a blind-copy function, but it doesn't usually appear automatically. You have to change your settings for it to show up on your screen. I send myself the message, and put everyone's 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 a\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 ddress, including my own as a check, into the blind-copy box. Every individual receives the message, addressed as if he or she was the only recipient of the message.
\par }{\insrsid1115228 
\par }}