{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch12\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f12\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}Batang{\*\falt \'a1\'a7IoUAA};}{\f77\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}@Batang;}
{\f149\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f150\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f152\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f153\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f154\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f155\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f156\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f157\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f169\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f170\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f172\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f173\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}
{\f174\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f175\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f176\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f177\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}
{\f271\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Batang Western{\*\falt \'a1\'a7IoUAA};}{\f269\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Batang CE{\*\falt \'a1\'a7IoUAA};}{\f270\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Batang Cyr{\*\falt \'a1\'a7IoUAA};}
{\f272\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Batang Greek{\*\falt \'a1\'a7IoUAA};}{\f273\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Batang Tur{\*\falt \'a1\'a7IoUAA};}{\f276\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Batang Baltic{\*\falt \'a1\'a7IoUAA};}{\f921\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 @Batang Western;}
{\f919\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 @Batang CE;}{\f920\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 @Batang Cyr;}{\f922\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 @Batang Greek;}{\f923\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 @Batang Tur;}{\f926\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 @Batang Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid4272125 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1468935\rsid3359135
\rsid3548530\rsid4272125\rsid5121627\rsid5258982\rsid6099472\rsid7171679\rsid7301286\rsid10900976\rsid13255183\rsid15213919}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6775;}{\info{\author Jeff Chen}{\operator Jeff Chen}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy2\hr17\min47}
{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy15\hr15\min56}{\version3}{\edmins2}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords650}{\nofchars3711}{\*\company Cambridge University Press}{\nofcharsws4353}{\vern16391}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale127\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot15213919 \fet0\sectd 
\psz1\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid4272125\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4272125 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 {\insrsid1468935\charrsid4272125 
\par }{\insrsid1468935\charrsid4272125 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Before I continue, I want to sketch in some of the significa\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
nt events of the life of the writer Jack London. This biographical outline is really just to give you a general picture . . . so that you can perhaps appreciate how his life and work were related. It's quite clear, I think you'll agree, that the kind of l
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 i\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
fe London led really did show up in the kinds of stories he wrote. But, before I go on, I want to remind you all that on Tuesday I'll be presenting an overview of London's major works - so in preparation for that I'd like you to read his small masterpiece
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 ,\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  }{\i\insrsid1468935\charrsid1468935 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 To Build a Fire.}{\insrsid1468935\charrsid4272125 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid1468935\charrsid4272125 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
OK. Now, where was I? London was born in San Francisco in 1876. In fact, he never knew his real father, who had left his mother before Jack was born. Biographers have suggested that the anxiety London felt at not knowing the identity of 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
his real father is clearly shown in the themes of many of his books - which often deal with the struggle for survival and the harshness of the natural and human world. So, I think it's true that we get a feel in his stories that London is often trying to 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 m\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 ake sense of the difficult events of his childhood.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 As a young man, Jack worked at various jobs - some menial and dangerous, and often adventurous. For example, he sailed the Pacific, worked on a fish patrol to catch poachers, raided oyster farms, prospec
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ted for gold, joined an army of unemployed workers, and even spent time in jail. Now why is all this so significant? Well, it really comes back to the way London used his life experiences in the characters and themes of his stories. In light of the often 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 h\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 arsh experiences he dealt with in these kinds of jobs, I think we can also understand what attracted him to socialism and the struggle for improved social and working conditions.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 London's learning was gained largely outside of institutions. In other words\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
, he learned mainly from experience, but was determined to improve himself and enrolled as a student at the University of California. However, he dropped out after one semester due to a lack of money, and perhaps disillusionment with university life. Any 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 o\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 f you feel that way?
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
Of course, it's true that he was always a keen reader and studied the works of other writers in order to learn to become a writer himself. I think we can say that he consciously chose the life of a writer in order to escape the unplea
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
sant prospect of manual work. The adventurous life he led provided him with a great deal of material from which to create imaginative literature. Most writers and intellectuals, of course, know about the struggle for survival only from their readings and 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 o\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 bservations. London, by contrast, experienced poverty, struggle, and danger first hand. Take, for example, one of his first published stories, }{\i\insrsid1468935\charrsid1468935 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Story of a Typhoon off the Coast of Japan}{\insrsid1468935\charrsid4272125 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 , which was taken directly from his experience as a sailor in the Pacifi\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
c when he was just 17. It is clear in this story, as in so many others of London's, that we the readers feel the directness of his writing and this, I think we can say, is because he wrote about what he knew and experienced so deeply.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Now at first, his su\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
bmissions to publishers met with very little success. However, he was very determined - and he forced himself to write one thousand words per day. This disciplined approach to writing eventually paid off, and he gained international fame, with a large out
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 p\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 ut of writing. In total, he published over 150 stories, 18 novels, and seven books of non\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 fiction. And many of them were translated into different languages. His novel }{
\i\insrsid1468935\charrsid1468935 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 The Call of the Wild}{\insrsid1468935\charrsid4272125 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  was the one that brought him lasting fame, and many of his short st\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ories are considered classics. It's true to say, though, I think we can admit . . . that not all his works are especially good literature. He often wrote carelessly . . . and there's a considerable part of his output, which I think it is fair to say, is u
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 n\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 inspired and uninteresting to the modern reader.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 In the last period of his life, London tried his hand at agriculture. Much of his later writing, in fact, is concerned with the pleasures of country life and the satisfaction to be gained from earning a liv
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 ing from the land. He pursued this interest with characteristic energy at his ranch in California and he continued a tight work schedule right up to his premature death at the age of 40 in November 1916.
\par }{\insrsid4272125 
\par }}