{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch12\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f12\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}Batang{\*\falt \'a2\'ae\'a1\'d7IoUAA};}{\f77\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}@Batang;}
{\f149\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f150\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f152\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f153\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f154\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f155\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f156\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f157\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f169\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f170\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f172\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f173\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}
{\f174\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f175\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f176\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f177\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}
{\f271\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Batang Western{\*\falt \'a2\'ae\'a1\'d7IoUAA};}{\f269\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Batang CE{\*\falt \'a2\'ae\'a1\'d7IoUAA};}{\f270\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Batang Cyr{\*\falt \'a2\'ae\'a1\'d7IoUAA};}
{\f272\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Batang Greek{\*\falt \'a2\'ae\'a1\'d7IoUAA};}{\f273\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Batang Tur{\*\falt \'a2\'ae\'a1\'d7IoUAA};}{\f276\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Batang Baltic{\*\falt \'a2\'ae\'a1\'d7IoUAA};}
{\f921\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 @Batang Western;}{\f919\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 @Batang CE;}{\f920\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 @Batang Cyr;}{\f922\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 @Batang Greek;}{\f923\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 @Batang Tur;}
{\f926\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 @Batang Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid13659691 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid3359135\rsid3548530
\rsid5121627\rsid5258982\rsid6099472\rsid7301286\rsid10029187\rsid10900976\rsid13255183\rsid13659691\rsid15213919\rsid15940401}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6775;}{\info{\author Jeff Chen}{\operator Jeff Chen}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy2\hr17\min49}
{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy15\hr16}{\version3}{\edmins3}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords784}{\nofchars4473}{\*\company Cambridge University Press}{\nofcharsws5247}{\vern16391}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale127\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot15213919 \fet0\sectd 
\psz1\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid13659691\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13659691 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 {\insrsid15940401\charrsid13659691 
\par }{\b\insrsid15940401\charrsid15940401 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid15940401\charrsid13659691 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 So I'd like to move on to a discussion of a group of people who vanished from the Earth around 30,000 years ago after having existed successfully for approximately a quarter of a million years. They're known as the Neanderthal people, named by the way, a
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 f\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ter a place in Germany where their bones, their remains were first found in 1856. Now, let's first look at how these people compared with the other main group of humans existing at that time, known as the Cro-Magnon. Now the remains of Cro-Magnon people s
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 h\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ow that they were anatomically similar, in other words, their body structure was physically more or less identical to modern humans. OK, does anyone know how our Cro-Magnon ancestors looked different from these Neanderthals?
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid15940401\charrsid15940401 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Man Student:}{\insrsid15940401\charrsid13659691 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  Didn't they have \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 a different skull shape?
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid15940401\charrsid15940401 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid15940401\charrsid13659691 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  Yes. But can you be more precise?
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid15940401\charrsid15940401 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Man Student:}{\insrsid15940401\charrsid13659691 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  Um, well, OK. The Neanderthals had a sloping forehead and no real chin.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid15940401\charrsid15940401 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid15940401\charrsid13659691 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  OK. Certainly their chins were not prominent and their foreheads sloped bac\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
kwards. So they looked rather different from the Cro-Magnon. OK. Now, what about their cultural and technological lives? Were they so much different from their Cro-Magnon cousins? Yes?
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid15940401\charrsid15940401 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Man Student:}{\insrsid15940401\charrsid13659691 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  They had the ability to make stone tools - so that was a \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 similarity.
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  
\par }{\b\insrsid15940401\charrsid15940401 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid15940401\charrsid13659691 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 Yes, although their tool-making ability appears to have been less developed than that of the Cro-Magnon. They did know how to make stone into useful tools but they don't appear to have developed fine points or blades. And the\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ir wooden spears seem to have been adapted for stabbing but not for throwing. The Cro-Magnon, on the other hand, developed spears with tips carved from bone and stone and other materials. They also used bows and arrows and invented handles for their tools
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 and weapons. Those are things the Neanderthals didn't develop. Yes?
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid15940401\charrsid15940401 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Student:}{\insrsid15940401\charrsid13659691 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  Well, didn't the Neanderthals know how to make fire?
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid15940401\charrsid15940401 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid15940401\charrsid13659691 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  Yes, now that's a very good point. They could make fire and transport it when necessary. And that is 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
an important skill that they shared with the Cro-Magnon. Also, they may have had some simple art forms, but again, fairly undeveloped in comparison with the Cro-Magnon, whose artistic sophistication is well documented. But, you know, there's a recent find
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
- a polished baby mammoth tooth - which suggests that the Neanderthals may have produced items for personal adornment. Both these points show that the Neanderthals may not have been as backward as was once claimed.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid15940401\charrsid15940401 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Student:}{\insrsid15940401\charrsid13659691 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  Do you think the Neandert\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 hals had the ability to produce language?
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid15940401\charrsid15940401 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 Woman Professor:}{\insrsid15940401\charrsid13659691 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 Oh, now that's an interesting question. Studies of skull capacity and shape indicate that they probably had similar neurological capacities to modern humans. So, in other words, they certainly had\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 the mental apparatus to produce language. Now, by examining the bone remains of the vocal tract area, we can say that they could produce sounds too, but they would not have been able to produce a large number of sounds and their speech articulation may h
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 a\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 ve been slow. By contrast, the Cro-Magnon would have had the ability to produce language and speech sounds just as modern humans.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 OK, so what happened to the Neanderthals? Well, this question has produced a lot}{\insrsid10029187 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2  of controversy - even division - }{\insrsid15940401\charrsid13659691 \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
within the sc\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
ientific community. So, broadly speaking, we can say that there are two main lines of thought here. First, it's possible that the Neanderthals may have died out due to a relative lack of sophistication in comparison to the Cro-Magnon. The Cro-Magnon peopl
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 e\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 arrived in regions inhabited by Neanderthals about 40,000 years ago. And, then around 30,000 years ago the climate became more severe - and the Cro-Magnons would have been better adapted to survival under these conditions - since they had, as we noted ea
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 r\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
lier, better weapons and tools and more developed speech. So in competition for territory or in hunting, they would have been more successful. Some people have gone so far as to suggest that the Neanderthals were deliberately destroyed by the newcomers - 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 o\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 r perhaps killed off by diseases brought in with them.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 So that's one general line of thought. Now, a second approach is to hypothesize that the Neanderthals and the Cro-Magnon interbred - and that over time, the Cro-Magnon genes became more dominant - so 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
that eventually the Neanderthal characteristics disappeared. During the same period, the Neanderthal culture would also have been absorbed into the more dominant Cro-Magnon culture. If they did manage to interbreed, this would mean, of course, that the tw
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 o\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
 types of people were not separate species. And if this scenario is right, it would have appeared as though the Neanderthals had become extinct - whereas in reality they would have merged with the more dominant Cro-Magnon people. Now, I want to emphasize 
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 t\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 
hat this issue is still very much debated by anthropologists. A lot of the focus of current research is on trying to determine whether either Cro-Magnon remains or modern humans have any traces of Neanderthal DNA. If they do, then a better case for claimi
\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 n\hich\af2\dbch\af12\loch\f2 g that the two peoples interbred could be made, and hence, the second of these two hypotheses would be strengthened.
\par }{\insrsid13659691 
\par }}