{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f41\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f42\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f44\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f45\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f46\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f47\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f48\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f49\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f61\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f62\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f64\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f65\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f66\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f67\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f68\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f69\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid143735 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid143735\rsid2640003\rsid4934555\rsid16332953}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6775;}{\info{\author msandre}{\operator Jeff Chen}
{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy3\hr11\min45}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy18\hr17\min29}{\version4}{\edmins3}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords637}{\nofchars3635}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws4264}{\vern16391}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale90\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot143735 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid143735\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid143735 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid4934555\charrsid143735 
\par OK, so today we're going to continue with a discussion about the aquatic environment. Specifically, I'm interested here in some of the adaptations that make surv
ival possible in estuary conditions. Now, as you know, the thing about the estuarine environment is that because the tide washes in and out twice a day, the salinity, that is, the amount or proportion of salt in the water, varies or can vary considerably 
t
hroughout any 24-hour period. When the tide is out, the water may be near freshwater levels and when the tide is in, the levels of salt may be more like seawater. When the water is in between seawater and freshwater, it's called "brackish" water. By this 
term, we mean water that is typically less than 30 parts per thousand of salt. So, plants and animals that live in this environment must be able to adapt to these constant changes in the saltiness of the estuary waters.}{\insrsid4934555 
\par }{\insrsid4934555\charrsid143735 
\par So, what are the kinds of adaptation
s that estuarine organisms have developed? Well, the most important are either physiological and/or behavioral. Regarding the first, the physiological, the bodily adaptations tend to be associated with maintaining the right balance of salinity within the 
b
ody. Some organisms, generally known as osmoregulators, control their internal concentrations of water salinity when the external environment changes. This word, of course, refers to osmosis, which . . . you don't need me to define osmosis, do you? Good, 
O
K. Usually this kind of creature is less permeable to water and salt. Crabs are a very good example. Crabs that live in the estuarine environment keep out both water and salt with their hard shells. But, in addition, they may have internal organs and cell
 
functions, which can regulate salt intake and excretion. Also, certain species of fish, which adjust to differing saline conditions have specialized kidneys, gills, and skin. Specialized kidneys and gills are able to switch between excreting more or less 
water and also between absorbing more or less salt, as conditions permit. So, the combined properties of gills, kidneys, and an impermeable skin allow them to live in conditions of varying salinity.}{\insrsid4934555 
\par }{\insrsid4934555\charrsid143735 
\par Plants as well as animals may use osmoregulation to survi
ve since, in saline habitats, salt levels can reach deadly levels. A common species of grass known as smooth cordgrass has adapted through its complex root system. These roots are able to remove salts from the water they take in. Such plants can also expe
l salt through their leaves, and in some species, they can also shed leaves that become loaded with excess salt.}{\insrsid4934555 
\par }{\insrsid4934555\charrsid143735 
\par OK. So, what about the behavioral factors that help creatures exist in the estuary?}{\insrsid16332953  }{\insrsid4934555\charrsid143735 Well, a common adaptation, especially among invertebrates,
 that is, creatures without backbones, is the ability to dig or burrow into the soft mud. Of course, this helps them avoid being eaten by predators such as birds or fish. But it's also an important advantage for species that cannot osmoregulate - cannot c
o
ntrol the concentration of salt solution in their bodies. This is because below the surface of the mud the concentration of salt is less than in the open water above - and what's more, the temperature is less variable, which is also beneficial for creatur
es that don't tolerate changes of temperature. On the other hand, creatures
 such as oysters and clams don't like to have too low a level of salt. So these organisms simply close their shells tightly when the level of salt becomes too low, during low tides.
 At this point, they stop feeding and stop breathing through their gills. When the high tide returns and the oxygen and salt levels increase, they open their shells and feed and breathe oxygen again.}{\insrsid4934555 
\par }{\insrsid4934555\charrsid143735 
\par Other creatures are more mobile, and this too, by the w
ay, is a behavioral adaptation. They can move upstream or downstream as conditions require. Certain crabs live in low salt areas because they can osmoregulate, but their young may not have developed this ability. So during breeding season, such species ma
y move to areas in the sea with higher levels of saline. In the blue crab}{\insrsid2640003 ,}{\insrsid4934555\charrsid143735 
 for example, the females migrate to water of high salinity to hatch their young. Then the new generation of crabs moves back to fresher water as they develop into adults. So, does that make sense?
\par }{\insrsid143735 
\par }}