{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f41\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f42\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f44\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f45\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f46\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f47\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f48\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f49\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f61\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f62\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f64\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f65\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f66\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f67\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f68\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f69\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid7299252 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid4201306\rsid4485706\rsid7299252\rsid8589349\rsid9059307\rsid15940786}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6775;}{\info
{\author msandre}{\operator Jeff Chen}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy3\hr13\min44}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy18\hr17\min39}{\version6}{\edmins20}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords775}{\nofchars4419}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws5184}{\vern16391}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot7299252 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid7299252\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7299252 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252 
\par }{\b\insrsid4485706\charrsid4485706 Man Professor:}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252  OK, up until now, we've been discussing th
e questions we as teachers construct for our students in order to encourage their thought process. But today, I want to look at the issue of asking questions from a different direction. Now, young children are full of questions. But once they're in the sc
h
ool system, the role reverses and the teacher becomes the primary questioner. Now, according to various studies, teachers ask between 300 and 400 questions a day in the average elementary school. Unfortunately, as children get older, they stop asking thei
r
 own questions. By the time students are in a  university . . . Well, last week I walked out of the Elementary Literacy course I teach, feeling kind of discouraged because not one of my students had asked me a question. Did they know it all, and consequen
tly, was I wasting my time and theirs? Were they so lost that they found it impossible to ask questions? Was I such a great lecturer that they understood everything perfectly? What is it that keeps students from asking questions? Anybody? Annie.
\par }{\insrsid4485706 
\par }{\b\insrsid8589349 Woman Student 1:}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252  Well, you know, I think it's hard for us to admit in front of our classmates that we don't understand something. I mean}{\insrsid9059307 ,}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252 
 nobody wants to feel stupid.
\par }{\insrsid4485706 
\par }{\b\insrsid4485706\charrsid4485706 Man Professor:}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252  So in other words, you look around at your classmates and think, "}{\insrsid15940786 E}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252 verybody else understands this}{\insrsid9059307 ,}
{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252  so I must be a real idiot"}{\insrsid15940786 ?}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252 
\par }{\insrsid4485706 
\par }{\b\insrsid8589349 Woman Student 1:}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252  Well, sometimes I think that, even though I know that if I don't understand a concept, well, probably several of my classmates don't understand it either.
\par }{\insrsid4485706 
\par }{\b\insrsid4485706\charrsid4485706 Man Professor:}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252  OK. What Annie is describing is the primary negative pressure that we as teachers need to constantly try to help students overcome. So, let me write that on the board}{
\insrsid15940786 :}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252  "negative pressures." And for item number one, I'll write "the fear of appearing stupid." OK. Can you think of other factors that keep students from asking questions?
\par }{\insrsid4485706 
\par }{\b\insrsid4485706\charrsid4485706 Man Student:}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252  Well, maybe this is another aspect of feeling stupid, but I think class size counts. This is a small class}{\insrsid9059307 ,}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252 
 and we all know each other. I don't feel as intimidated asking a question in front of a small group of people I trust.
\par }{\insrsid4485706 
\par }{\b\insrsid8589349 Woman Student 1:}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252 
 You know, I can see why Tony might think class size is relevant to feeling stupid, but I think there's more to it than that. I mean . . . well, when you ask a question in one of the large lecture hall
s, sometimes you have to repeat it several times 'cause the professor can't hear you . . . and, well, that is embarrassing.
\par }{\insrsid4485706 
\par }{\b\insrsid4485706\charrsid4485706 Man Student:}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252  Yeah, and sometimes a question is asked that the professor heard, but the students in the back of the class couldn't hear and so the professor's answer is meaningless.

\par }{\insrsid4485706 
\par }{\b\insrsid4485706\charrsid4485706 Man Professor:}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252 
 OK. So, in other words, large class size discourages meaningful dialog, both in terms of the room size and the number of students. I'm going to write this as "large class size pressure." Lisa?
\par }{\insrsid4485706 
\par }{\b\insrsid4485706\charrsid4485706 Woman Student 2:}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252 
 It's not just large class sizes that make one feel uncomfortable. Sometimes it's more difficult to ask a question, just because everyone knows everyone else. But lost in the crowd, it might, in fact, be easier to talk.
\par }{\insrsid4485706 
\par }{\b\insrsid4485706\charrsid4485706 Man Professor:}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252  OK. I can see that. So let me erase "large." There . . . "class size pressure." Anything more to add?
\par }{\insrsid4485706 
\par }{\b\insrsid4485706\charrsid4485706 Woman Student 2:}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252  Time pressure.
\par }{\insrsid4485706 
\par }{\b\insrsid4485706\charrsid4485706 Man Professor:}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252  "Time pressure"}{\insrsid15940786 ?}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252  Can you expand on that?
\par }{\insrsid4485706 
\par }{\b\insrsid4485706\charrsid4485706 Woman Student 2:}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252  Professor Clarkson.}{\insrsid9059307  [laughter]}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252 
\par }{\insrsid4485706 
\par }{\b\insrsid4485706\charrsid4485706 Man Professor:}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252  Professor Clarkson? I seem to have missed the joke.
\par }{\insrsid4485706 
\par }{\b\insrsid4485706\charrsid4485706 Man Student:}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252  Professor Clarkson is . . . sort of . . . the epitome of time pressure.
\par }{\insrsid4485706 
\par }{\b\insrsid4485706\charrsid4485706 Woman Student 2:}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252  Yeah, he dashes through his lectures like, well as if he were trying to cram the entire field of child development into one class session.
\par }{\insrsid4485706 
\par }{\b\insrsid8589349 Woman Student 1:}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252  Yeah, it's like he doesn't even stop to breathe. I feel intimidated about stopping his lecture with a mere question.
\par }{\insrsid4485706 
\par }{\b\insrsid4485706\charrsid4485706 Man Professor:}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252 
 OK. I think we have two negative pressures going on here. "Time pressure," as Lisa said, and personality. A teacher's personality seems to deter students from asking questions.
\par }{\insrsid4485706 
\par }{\b\insrsid4485706\charrsid4485706 Woman Student 2:}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252  It's not exactly personality. I mean Professor Clarkson is a really nice man and a good lecturer.
\par }{\insrsid4485706 
\par }{\b\insrsid4485706\charrsid4485706 Man Professor:}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252  OK, but isn't it the signal he sends of being in a hurry that keeps you from asking questions?
\par }{\insrsid4485706 
\par }{\b\insrsid4485706\charrsid4485706 Woman Student 2:}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252  Yes, but . . . Well, when someone does get the courage 
to ask Professor Clarkson a question, he never gives the impression that his time is being wasted. I think the type of teacher personality that keeps students from asking questions is . . . well, sometimes a teacher makes a sarcastic joke at the student's
 expense.
\par }{\insrsid4485706 
\par }{\b\insrsid4485706\charrsid4485706 Man Professor:}{\insrsid4485706\charrsid7299252 
 OK. So you do agree that personality may keep students from asking questions, even though you don't think it applies to Professor Clarkson. So "personality." Does anyone have any more to add? No? OK. So now I'd like you to split in
to groups of three. In your groups, I'd like you to discuss possible ways teachers can promote question-asking in the classroom. Keep in mind the negative pressures we've discussed, oh, and by the way, there are other pressures that were not mentioned, bu
t I think you'll come up with them in your discussions. I'll ask you to share your thoughts in, say, 20 minutes.
\par }{\insrsid7299252 
\par }}