{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f37\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f38\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f40\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f41\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f42\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f43\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f44\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f45\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f57\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f58\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f60\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f61\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f62\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f63\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f64\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f65\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid6052063 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid4807556\rsid5702762\rsid6052063\rsid7099406\rsid15417957}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6775;}{\info{\author msandre}
{\operator Jeff Chen}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy3\hr13\min48}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy19\hr12\min27}{\version4}{\edmins14}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords604}{\nofchars3448}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws4044}{\vern16391}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale90\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot6052063 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid6052063\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid6052063 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid5702762\charrsid6052063 
\par I want to talk about what was once a very popular way of studying character based on the shape of the skull. This theory, what was known as "phrenology," was started by a German doctor named Franz Gall around the year
 1800. What Gall proposed was that it was possible to determine character by feeling or "reading" the bumps on a person's head. I want to discuss here the basic principles of this theory, what it claimed to be able to do - and then why it became unfashion
able and disappeared. Finally, I want to ask whether it contributed anything to our knowledge about the brain.}{\insrsid5702762 
\par }{\insrsid5702762\charrsid6052063 
\par So, what were some of the important features of phrenology? Gall said that the brain is the organ of the mind; that our talents and mental abili
ties stem from the brain. Furthermore, he said that the brain is composed of several distinct organs - and that each of the brain's faculties has a separate organ in a separate part of the brain. What's more, the size of any organ is a reflection of its p
o
wer - and hence importance in the makeup of an individual's character. He also claimed that the overall shape of the brain is determined by the development of the organs which it contains. He argued that the outside skull takes on the shape of the brain w
hich it encloses - and therefore the surface of the skull can be taken as an accurate reflection of the shape of the brain and thus of a person's psychological tendencies and aptitudes.}{\insrsid5702762 
\par }{\insrsid5702762\charrsid6052063 
\par So how did it work?}{\insrsid7099406  }{\insrsid5702762\charrsid6052063 Well, a phrenologist would run his fingers over a 
person's head, examining every bump or indentation. So, for example, a protuberance - a bump, in say, the forehead - would indicate that the person had a pronounced tendency to be benevolent, since the organ of benevolence was supposedly in that location.
 An indentation somewhere else would mean a weakly developed attribute, say a poor memory.}{\insrsid5702762 
\par }{\insrsid5702762\charrsid6052063 
\par Now, these things were the basic ideas of phrenology as practiced throughout the early nineteenth century. So widespread was this theory that many people would consult phrenologists before, oh, for example, hiring an employee, or even}{\insrsid15417957 ,}
{\insrsid5702762\charrsid6052063  say, finding a marriage partner. Proponents also tried to determine a person's predisposition to crime or dishonesty, and unfortunately, at one stage some scientists tried to justify not
ions such as criminal tendency or racial superiority through skull readings. At the peak of its popularity}{\insrsid15417957 ,}{\insrsid5702762\charrsid6052063 
 phrenology was widely practiced in both North America and Europe. So, you're probably thinking all this is really bizarre, right? Well, so did some p
eople back then! In truth there had always been dissenting voices. The theory was made fun of and criticized by various individuals from its earliest appearance.}{\insrsid5702762 
\par }{\insrsid5702762\charrsid6052063 
\par So what happened to phrenology? Well, educated people lost interest as more academic approaches to psychology became common. It was noticed by some that phrenologists tended to seek confirmation for their hypo}{\insrsid15417957 
theses - while ignoring counter}{\insrsid5702762\charrsid6052063 examples. Suppose a person was said after a reading to have a marked tendency towards, let's say, honesty, b
ut then exhibited strongly dishonest personality traits; it would be clear that the analysis was not accurate. Phrenologists tended to dogmatically reject or explain away falsifying evidence, such as this example shows.}{\insrsid5702762 
\par }{\insrsid5702762\charrsid6052063 
\par Have we learned anything from this 
theory? Well, I would like to argue that there was some value in it. First of all, it was an important step historically to emphasize that the brain was the organ of the mind, that thinking and feeling were done through the brain. Furthermore, phrenologis
t
s were important in arguing that brain functions were localized - that some parts of the brain were specialized for certain abilities. Nowadays, of course, we know that this is only partly true. Some parts of the brain appear to be very much involved with
 certain functions, whereas many abilities seem to be distributed throughout the brain rather than in one location. So}{\insrsid4807556 ,}{\insrsid5702762\charrsid6052063 
 to sum up, we can say that phrenology was of some scientific value although many, if not most, of its ideas have been superseded.
\par }{\insrsid6052063 
\par }}