{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f39\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f40\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f42\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f43\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f44\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f45\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f46\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f47\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f59\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f60\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f62\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f63\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f64\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f65\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f66\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f67\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid1251107 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1251107\rsid5008154\rsid12275806\rsid12549968\rsid12612294\rsid14229848\rsid15467572}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6775;}
{\info{\author msandre}{\operator Jeff Chen}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy3\hr13\min54}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy19\hr16\min16}{\version6}{\edmins177}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords536}{\nofchars3058}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws3587}{\vern16391}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot1251107 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid1251107\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1251107 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid12549968\charrsid1251107 
\par }{\b\insrsid12549968\charrsid12549968 Man Professor:}{\insrsid12549968\charrsid1251107  Today I'd like to discuss an interesting research area for space scientists. So, I think most of you have heard of the term }{\i\insrsid12549968\charrsid12549968 
terraforming}{\insrsid12549968\charrsid1251107 
. For those of you who haven't, let me just repeat that terraforming is the name given to the process of transforming a planet from its current conditions into a planet something like the Earth. That is, changing the temperature and the atmospheric condit
i
ons so that it is livable for humans and other life forms found on Earth. I know this sounds a lot like science fiction. But, a lot of scientists are beginning to take this idea seriously. So, why would we want to do this, go to such an immense expenditur
e in }{\insrsid12612294 terms of money, resources, time . . .}{\insrsid12549968\charrsid1251107 
\par }{\insrsid12549968 
\par }{\b\insrsid12549968\charrsid12549968 Man Student:}{\insrsid12549968\charrsid1251107  Excuse me, Professor, are you serious? What a waste. That's assuming it's possible.
\par }{\insrsid12549968 
\par }{\b\insrsid12549968\charrsid12549968 Woman Student:}{\insrsid12549968\charrsid1251107  Well, it could be very useful in the future if the population of the world got so out of hand that t
he resources on Earth couldn't support the number of people here. I think some people would say that we've already reached that point.
\par }{\insrsid12549968 
\par }{\b\insrsid12549968\charrsid12549968 Man Professor:}{\insrsid12549968\charrsid1251107  OK. Yeah. The pressure on resources of a rapidly expanding population has always forced people to migrate
 in search of new territory. We could say that human migrations have, historically and even prehistorically, occurred when populations have grown too much for the available space. Think of the migrations to the Americas from Europe and elsewhere.}{
\insrsid12549968 
\par }{\insrsid12275806\charrsid1251107 
\par }{\insrsid12549968\charrsid1251107 But let'
s get back to the problem of terraforming. How could this possibly be done? Let's take Mars. This is the planet most scientists think of when talking about terraforming. It's certainly the best candidate, at least in our solar system. The other planets ar
e much less suitable for all kinds of reasons. At least Mars has water in ice form and a solid surface. But, remember}{\insrsid15467572 ,}{\insrsid12549968\charrsid1251107 
 it has a very thin atmosphere, made up largely of carbon dioxide and almost no oxygen, its temperature averages about -60}{\insrsid5008154  degrees}{\insrsid12549968\charrsid1251107  Celsius, and as far as we can tell, it's completely lifeless.
\par }{\insrsid12549968 
\par }{\b\insrsid12549968\charrsid12549968 Man Student:}{\insrsid12549968\charrsid1251107 
 So wait a minute. You're saying we could change this into an Earth-like environment? That's a total waste of resources. What about using that money to improve the Earth? And don't we have t
o ask ourselves whether we have the right to tamper with unspoiled environments?
\par }{\insrsid12549968 
\par }{\b\insrsid12549968\charrsid12549968 Woman Student:}{\insrsid12549968\charrsid1251107  I don't agree with you there. I mean, if we can do it, it would be worth it to have so much more living space}{\insrsid15467572 ,}{\insrsid12549968\charrsid1251107 
 and no one actually lives there, on Mars. We wouldn't be spoiling it for any life form. Mars is lifeless. If we could turn it into a habitable planet, I think it's worth a shot.
\par }{\insrsid12549968 
\par }{\b\insrsid12549968\charrsid12549968 Man Professor:}{\insrsid12549968\charrsid1251107  OK. There are certainly ethical considerations. And they are sure to lead to heated debate. But let's just thin
k about the practicalities for now. What kind of technology could make this possible anyway? Several suggestions have been made on how we could raise the temperature. One suggestion is that we put up huge orbital mirrors to reflect sunlight onto the surfa
c
e. Another one is that asteroids, containing great amounts of ammonia, could be forced to smash into the planet. Ammonia is a greenhouse gas, so that would also have the effect of raising the temperature. Those are just two of the ideas which have been di
s
cussed. Now, once the temperature has been raised, the ice at the poles would melt - and the water could be used to sustain life. At first this could be plant life introduced from Earth. Finally, after perhaps thousands of years, the plants would have giv
en off enough oxygen to transform the atmosphere into one in which animals and eventually humans could survive.
\par }{\insrsid1251107 
\par }}