{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1042{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f37\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f38\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f40\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f41\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f42\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f43\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f44\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f45\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f57\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f58\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f60\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f61\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f62\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f63\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f64\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f65\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid16192151 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid8591073\rsid16019857\rsid16192151\rsid16467713}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6775;}{\info{\author msandre}
{\operator Jeff Chen}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy3\hr13\min57}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy18\hr11}{\version4}{\edmins4}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords561}{\nofchars3203}{\*\company  CUP}{\nofcharsws3757}{\vern16391}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot16192151 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid16192151\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid16192151 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151 
\par }{\b\insrsid16467713 Research Coordinator:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  Yes. Can I help you?
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid8591073\charrsid8591073 Woman Student:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  Uh, yes, I'm here about that announcement on the bulletin board about your needing participants in an experiment.
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid16467713 Research Coordinator:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  OK. We have several doctoral projects needing participants. Which one in particular are you interested in?
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid8591073\charrsid8591073 Woman Student:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  Oh, I didn't realize there was more than one. The one I saw was about a food experiment . . . one about how food affects mood.
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid16467713 Research Coordinator:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  Oh, that's Kenny's experiment. Yeah, can I ask you some questions . . . personal ones . . . to see if you meet the requirements?
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid8591073\charrsid8591073 Woman Student:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  Sure, why not.
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid16467713 Research Coordinator:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  First, are you diabetic or do you have any allergies to any common foods or food additives?
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid8591073\charrsid8591073 Woman Student:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  No. Not that I know of.
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid16467713 Research Coordinator:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  OK. Are you currently on any type of diet or taking any medication?
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid8591073\charrsid8591073 Woman Student:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  No. These are the questions on the notice that's on the bulletin board, aren't they?
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid16467713 Research Coordinator:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151 
 Yeah, but we have to go through all of them with volunteers because some people don't read the notices carefully and really aren't suitable for the experiment. We also need you to sign an agreement of participation stating that you've understood al
l the requirements and are willing to take part in the study.
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid8591073\charrsid8591073 Woman Student:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  OK. That makes sense.
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid16467713 Research Coordinator:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  Are you suffering from any cold, flu, or respiratory problems?
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid8591073\charrsid8591073 Woman Student:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  Well, not this week.
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid16467713 Research Coordinator:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  OK, if you do come down with a cold next week while the experiment's going on, we would like you to notify us and drop out.
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid8591073\charrsid8591073 Woman Student:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  OK. That sounds reasonable.
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid16467713 Research Coordinator:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  Have you ever been diagnosed with an eating disorder?
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid8591073\charrsid8591073 Woman Student:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  No.
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid16467713 Research Coordinator:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151 
 OK. Now, let me explain what we need you to do. You're not supposed to eat anything in the morning before coming into the lab. That's the Pharmacology Lab, on the second floor of the red brick building behind the Student Center. So, every morning all nex
t week you're to come to the lab for breakfast.
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid8591073\charrsid8591073 Woman Student:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  Great.
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid16467713 Research Coordinator:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  And you are expected to eat it, whether you like the breakfast or not.
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid8591073\charrsid8591073 Woman Student:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  It won't be too strange, will it? Like pickled onions or grasshoppers?
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid16467713 Research Coordinator:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  No, there won't be anything like that. Now, where was I?
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid8591073\charrsid8591073 Woman Student:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  Eating all my breakfast whether I like it or not.
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid16467713 Research Coordinator:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  Oh. Right. Breakfast will consist of the normal things, like eggs or cereal - different each day though. After br
eakfast, you'll be given some tests that look at your responses to certain interactive stimuli on a computer. Then you're free to go, but we need you back about two hours later for a snack. And you're not supposed to have any outside snacks before coming 
back for our snack. The snacks are yogurt or nuts, candy bars, potato chips . . . typical snacks really, followed by some more interactive tests.
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid8591073\charrsid8591073 Woman Student:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  OK. Sounds fun.
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid16467713 Research Coordinator:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  Yeah, I've volunteered for it myself. Now, let's look at the schedule. It's very important that you can make all the sessions.
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid8591073\charrsid8591073 Woman Student:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  Does it have to be exactly the same time every morning? That could be a problem for me.
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid16467713 Research Coordinator:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  No. Uh, well, uh . . . yeah. I mean you can have breakfast at a differen
t time every day, but the snack has to be two hours after the breakfast. We've tried to set times so participants could have breakfast before going off to class and get back for the snack.
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid8591073\charrsid8591073 Woman Student:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  Oh, OK. Yes, I can fit into your schedule times every day.
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid16467713 Research Coordinator:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  Great. Can you mark the times that you'll be coming on this schedule and, oh, sign this consent form?
\par }{\insrsid8591073 
\par }{\b\insrsid8591073\charrsid8591073 Woman Student:}{\insrsid8591073\charrsid16192151  Sure.
\par }{\insrsid16192151 
\par }}